Philos : Transact:no:295 fig:4 .
HF fig : 10 .
fig : 2 .
E IG KD A LC I. A Letter to the Royal Society , from Mr Anthony Van Leeuwenhock , F. R. S. concerning Animalcula on the Roots of Duck-weed , &amp;c. YOu may remember , that in my Letter of the 25th of Decemb. 1702 .
I affirmed that the Animalcula , represented by Fig. 8 .
a. b. c , that were fastned to the small Roots of that Green stuff found on the top of the Water in our Ditches and little Canals , which we call Duckweeds , had two small Wheels issuing out of their Bodies .
A certain Curious Gentleman , that saw the Motion of these Wheels with great satisfaction , entreated me , that when I had an opportunity , I would once again show him this Wonderful Rotation .
In the Month of July last , I caused several of these Weeds , as they were carried by the Stream thro our Town , be taken out of the Water in an Earthen Pot , and took my full view of the foremention 'd Animalcula at several times , which appeared as here in Fig. 1 .
ABCDEF G. The Case or Sheath of which is represented by AB G , into which the Animalculum betakes itself , upon the least shaking or stirring of the Duck-weed , and then thrusts itself out again as far as BCF G , and at the same time appear the two little Wheels described by CDE F , in observing the Motion of which one would be apt to think they were two real Revolving Wheels .
But so soon as we were able to place the Animalculum before our Eyes , in such a position that we could view the little Wheels , not partially , as is here represented , but compleatly , and all at once , we were convinced of our Mistake in our former Assertions ; for now we saw clearly that what appeared before to be two distinct little Wheels , was really one and the same Circumvolution .
~ Now , in order to give you a clearer Notion of the two described Wheels , I ordered the Painter to draw 'em larger than they appeared to his fight .
Fig. 2 .
HIKLM represents the said Wheels , in which the Rotation proceeds from H to I , and so on from I to K , and from K to L M. I have often stood in suspense whether this Regular and Wonderful Rotation did really happen as it appeared to me , and several other Gentlemen that saw it ; yet I could not chuse but be satisfied at last of the Phenomenon , forasmuch as having , in order to my entire satisfaction , thrown away those Wheels ( to the Roots of which the said Animalcula cleaved ) and made my Observations on several others , I found the same event every time , only with this difference , that the internal Arches in Fig. 2 .
described by K and M , were not near so much Indented .
During those Observations , one Animalculum appeared to me , as in Fig. 3 .
NOPQRS T , and N , that part of it by which it was fastned to the Weed .
This Animalculum had his Receptacle or little House ( represented by NO T ) composed of Round Bubbles , which Figure had not occurred to me before .
When this Animalculum had thrust that part of its Body , from O to P , out of its Case or Shell , it produced out of its own Body at the same time that Wonderful Wheel work that consisted of four round parts , represented in Fig. 3 .
by PQR S , three of which were to be seen very plain , but the fourth at T was almost hid from the sight .
All this Wheel-work moved from P to Q , and from R to S. After I had nicely observed the said Animalculum , I directed the Painter to draw the same as well as he could , according to its appearance in Fig. 3 .
After some little time this Animalculum appeared in such a position that we could compleatly see all the four parts , whereupon I ordered my Painter to describe the Rotation with a larger Circumference than it really appeared , to the end that you may the better understand this wonderful and unconceiveable Wheel-work with all its Teeth .
Fig. 4 .
ABCDEFGHIKLM represents that Instrument that in Fig. 3 .
is for the most part of it described by PQR S , in which we saw the said Teeth and Wheelwork move from ABC to D , and from D to OF G , and after that manner perform the whole Revolution ; and forasmuch as I had placed the said Delightful Animalculum just as it was fastned to the Root of the Weed in the Water , before my Microscope , I took that opportunity to communicate a view of it to two several Gentlemen , who were struck with the greatest Amazement at the sight of such an inconceivable Rotation ; and at the least sudden touch of the Animalculum , it presently drew the Wheel-work into its Body , and then its whole Body into its Case or Shell , so that we could see nothing but a kind of Horn , Fig. 3 .
NO T , in which it hid itself ; but it quickly put forth that part of its Body described by OPQ RS T , and then the Rotation or Wheel-work proceeded as before .
Now if any body should be inclined to make this Experiment after me , he must take care to choose out Duckweeds that have long Roots , for I never observed any of these Animalcula in the short Roots of young Weeds , nor indeed in the great Roots , when once they are covered with a rough Matter , and tending to a Decay , as I have seen a great many in the beginning of August ; neither ought he to leave off his Enquiry , tho he should meet with ten or twenty Roots that have none of the abovementioned Animalcula in-them ; for it has happened to me that I have examined more than five and twenty~ Roots , without meeting with any of these Animalcula on them ; as also , on the contrary , I have sometimes found three of 'em upon one Weed .
Moreover , in one of my Glasses , in which I had shut up a Weed with its Root , there was an Animalculum of the length of the third part of an Inch , and something thicker than the small Root of the Duck-weed , the Body of which was for the most part Transparent , only there was a Gut or Intestin that ran thro ' the whole length of the Body , and was wrinkled or shrivel 'd in several places ; and as it came towards the Head it grew rounder and thicker , which I imagined to be the Maw or Stomach .
This Gut was full of Meat throughout , which the Animalculum had gathered either from the Roots , or the excrescent Particles round about it ; and forasmuch as the upper part of the Head was provided with a long and pointed Horny substance like a Sturgeon , so also was the Mouth inwards , and joined to the end of the Belly .
The said Gut being filled with Meat was in a continual Motion , which I call a pinching or twitching , in order to the attenuation or protrusion of the Chyle ; and if the Guts had not been full of Meat , which hindered the Transparency thereof , I should have seen all the Joints of the Back bone .
The third day , after I had shut up the Animalculum in my Glass , I saw a long and slender little Worm , that I judged to be a Thousand times smaller than the aforesaid Animalculum , which had insinuated , or bored Part of it self into the Body of the Animalculum , and , as far as it appeared to me , the Worm laboured to get in his whole Body ; and the next day in the morning I discovered that it was in a manner quite got in , and at night I could see nothing of it but a little bit sticking out ; and then I could Xxxxxxxxxx see see , that in the place where the Worm had insinuated itself , the Animalculum was partly without any Meat , or Motion , whereas there still remained some Motion above and below that place : Upon the fifth day after , I saw another Worm trying to get into the Body of the Animalculum , upon which it made a great stir with its Body , and so shook off its Enemy ; and presently after I saw no Motion in the Guts , so that I concluded that the Death of the Animalculum was approaching ; after which it did abandon the Root of the Duck-weed , and placed itself on the side of the Glass , and a little while after I saw it lye dead at the bottom ; from whence I firmly concluded , that the Death of the Animalculum was occasioned by the Worm 's piercing into its Body , whereupon the Guts were so wounded that they were deprived off all Motion .
Among several sorts of small Animalcula , I observed Three whose Bodies were about as thick as the Hair of ones Head , and Ten times as long .
These Animalcula were so Transparent , that at first I took 'em for nothing but empty Skins ; for one could see nothing but an exceeding small part of it about the Head , and the hinder part of the Body that was not Transparent ; and that part which I judged to be the Bowels , was a small part of it inclining to a yellowish colour ; and they had on the fore part of the Head two ( as it were ) very crooked Claws , and on the hinder part of the Body several Transparent Hairs .
I observed these Animalcula several days together , and always saw that they moved their Bodies very nimbly in a Serpentine motion , and as it were in an instant of time , and so removed about from place to place ; and as often as I viewed them , I could never find that they sat still on the Roots of the Duck-weed , or on the sides of the Glass , but were continually roving about in the Water .
Afterwards , when I look't upon 'em again , I could not perceive the least Motion in their Bodies , either inward or outward , but observed that sometimes they subsided in the Water , and then emerged again , but very leisurely ; which appeared very strange to me , because , as I said just now , I could not discover the least motion in their Bodies ; tho I do n't doubt to Assert , that there is some Motion , be it never so small , in a Body , which in the space of 2 or 3 Pulses shall one while sink to the bottom , and then rise to the top ; for it is impossible for us to set an inanimate Body in the Water in such a position , that it shall neither sink quite down , nor emerge quite up to the superficies ; and tho we could find a Body ( which yet I think is not to be done ) that should be just of the same weight with Water , it could not keep the place in the Water to which it was first assigned ; for , according as the Water , into which you put that Body , should increase or diminish in Heat , that same Water would proportionably take up more or less Space ; and consequently the Body , that was so placed that it could neither entirely emerge nor subside , if the Water , for example , should become warmer , and so take up more room , would immediately sink to the bottom .
In short , we have reason to be confounded in our imaginations , when we meet with such Animalcula as I before described .
The only Solution therefore that I can give in this case , is , That such an Animalculum has some Air in its Body ; and that by squeezing and contracting of its Body it can emit some of the Materia Subtilis that is mixed with it , by which it naturally subsides ; and on the contrary , by dilating its Body again , an equal quantity of the same Materia Subtilis is let in , and so the Animalculum , without stirring itself , shall rise or sink .
Now I was the more easily induced to say what I formerly did about the Animalcula that are fastned to the Roots of Duck-weed ; to wit , that they had two distinct Xxxxxxxxxx2 re revolving Wheels , as they appeared to others as well as my self ; because I have discovered several Animalcula that thrust out two Wheels out of the fore part of the Body as they swim , or march on the sides of the Glass ; one of which I caus 'd to be described by Fig. 5 .
VW X. This sort of Animalcula I found in great numbers in the Gutter-water in Summer , which had stagnated some days in the small Pits or Cavities of the Lead .
These Animalcula are gradually less and less , so far that 50 small ones are not so large as one great one , or full grown Animalculum , that was big with young .
In Octob. 1702 .
I caused the Filth or Dirt of the Gutters ( when there was no Water there , and the Dirt was quite dry ) to be gathered together , and took about a Tea-cupful of the same , and put it into a Paper upon my Desk ; since which time I have often taken a little thereof and poured upon it boiled Water after it had stood till it was cold , to the end that I might obviate any objection that should be made , as if there were living Creatures in that Water .
These Animalcula when the Water runs off them , or driesaway , contract their Bodies into a Globular or Oval Figure .
After that the abovemention 'd Dry substance had lain near 21 months in the Paper , I put into a Glass Tube of an inch Diameter the remainder of what I had by me , and poured upon it boiled Rain Water , after it was almost cold , and then immediately viewed the smallest parts of it , particularly that which subsided leisurely to the bottom , and observed a great many round Particles , most of which were reddish , and they were certainly Animalcula ; and some hours after I discovered a few that had opened or unfolded their Bodies , swimming thro ' the Water , and a great many others that~had not unfolded themselves were sunk to the bottom , some of which had little holes in their Bodies ; from whence I concluded that the little Creature called the Mite had been in the Paper , and preyed upon the aforesaid Animalcula .
The next day I saw three particular Animalcula swimming through the Water , the smallest of which was 100 times smaller than the abovesaid Animalcula Now ought we not to be astonished to find that these small Insects can lye 21 Months dry , and yet live , and as soon as ever they are put into Water fall a swimming , or fastning the hinder parts of their Bodies to the Glass , and then produce their Wheels , as in Fig. 5 .
W X , just as if they had never wanted Water .
In the month of Septemb .
I put a great many of the last mentioned Animalcula into a wide Glass Tube , which placed themselves on the sides of the Glass presently , whereupon I poured the Water out , and then observed that several Animalcula , to the number of 18 or 19 , lay by one another in the space of a Course Sand ; all which , when there remained no more Water , closed up themselves in a globular figure .
Some of the Bodies of these Animalcula were so strongly dried up , that one could see the wrinkles in them , and they were of a Reddish Colour ; a few others were so Transparent , that if you held them up between your Eye and the Light , you might move your Fingers behind 'em , and see the Motion thro their Bodies .
After that these Animalcula had lain thus dried up a day or two , I invited some Gentlemen to come and partake of the agreeable Spectacle with me ; that is , to see how the said Animalcula would divest themselves of their Globular figure , and swim about in the Water .
According to which , after my Friends had satisfied their Curiosity , in viewing the Animalcula in their oval or globular form , some of which were so Pellucid as if they had been little Glass Balls , I poured some Water into the Glass Tube , whereupon they presently sunk to the bottom ; and then the Gentlemen took the said Tube into their Hands , and viewing it one after the other thro a Microscope , they saw the Animalcula after the space of about half an hour beginning to open and extend their Bodies , and getting clear of the Glass , to swim about the Water , excepting only two of the largest of them , that stayed longer on the sides of the Glass , before they stretched out their Bodies , and swam away .
When I was by my self , I viewed these Animalcula with a Microscope , after I had poured the Water from 'em , in order to see how they brought their Bodies into that Orbicular form as is mentioned above ; and having fixed my Eye upon two of the biggest of them , I observed that they did stretch out their Bodies in the space of a minute several times to an extraordinary length , and thrice opened the hinder part of their Bodies , and discharged some Excrements , which , in the little Water that remained about them , were dissolved into small Pellets , before they assumed their round figure ; and forasmuch as I imagined that the Female Animalcula endeavoured to discharge themselves also of the Burden of their Young , my Observations had lasted longer , but my Eyes being tired , I adjourned 'em to another time .
In the month of Octob. of the last year , before the Dirt and Filth of my Leaden Gutter was quite dry d up , I took a handful of it , and laid it on a glased Earthen Dish , in order to preserve it ; for I do n't suffer such foul stuff to lye long in my Gutter , but twice a year cause the Lead to be scower 'd so clean that it looks just like New .
This foul stuff being dry is as hard as Clay ; so that the Mites ca n't come at the Animalcula , that are thus doubly shut up ; and now we shall see whether they will live longer than 21 months .
A few days ago I took some of this same dry stuff , and infused it both in cold Water that had been boiled , and in Rain Water newly fallen ; whereupon the Animalcula malcula began to show themselves , and that in great numbers ; and soon after two sorts of much smaller Animalcula .
In my Letter of the 8th of Jan. last , I writ to you about the dreadful Storm that had happened the 8th of Decemb. before ; and I told you then that the strong Winds had carried the Waves of the Sea over our Meadows and Orchards , from whence I presaged a fruitful year , but few people took notice of my predictions ; however , having discoursed several persons , that concerned themselves in Tillage or Grazing , upon that subject , they all assured me , that they had never known such a plentiful year for Grass , as also for Peas and Beans , as was the last Summer ; and among others , I enquired of a Gentleman , that does Fatten Danish Oxen every year , about the same : Whose answer was , That he had a piece of Ground on which he fed 26 Oxen , and that if he had turned 26 more into the same Pasture , there would have been Grass enough for them ; and that he had never seen so much Grass before ; and that the Oxen were exceeding fat .

