Philos : Transact : No : 298 .
2 Fig : 1 .
E N D F M C G O A LH B I K 3 4 QP 5 876SR VT ZYXW BA 10 9 11 DC KFE H 12 13 ML ON G I. A Letter from Mr Anthony van Leeuwenhoek , F. R. S. concerning the Figures of the Salts of Crystal .
ABout the end of last March the Heer Peter Valkenier .
made me a Visit again , and brought with him several Crystals that were still joined to some pieces of the Rock , and were very remarkable ; among the rest , the said Gentleman had one about as big as my Fist , which looked like several small Flint-stones joined together ; they seemed to be united by very Transparent Particles , which one might call Wild Crystal : And when I viewed the so named Crystal Particals , of which the largest prominent Points seemed no bigger thro the Microscope than a large Grain of Sand , many of 'em appeared to me to be Hexangular , like the Mountain Crystal .
The said Gentleman told me farther , that in Switzerland there were found some of the highest Mountains , where the great and small Stones were almost mix d or united with the wild Crystal , which Mountains are therefore called by the Inhabitants Nagelfelsen , which is as much as to say , the Nail Mountains or Rocks , by reason of the great number of prominent points in the same .
He very obligingly pressed me to take some of these Stones , so joined as is above mentioned , in order to make my observations concerning 'em , which I did accordingly , and with a Key struck off 4 or 5 small Flint Stones from the great piece ; in doing which , several of the so named wild Crystal Particles came off together .
I placed the said Crystal Particles bef re a Microscope , and observed that each of them was almost of a different figure , tho most of them run into an hexangular point of several sizes ; in the breaking them from one another the sides assumed particular figures , which looked as if they were composed of nothing but long Particles , all of them as bright and transparent as any Crystal , save only in those parts where they were joined to the Stones .
The Crystal Particles lay very thick upon one another , and they were so small that 100 and more were not equal to our Crystal Particles ; among others , I observed some Crystal Particles no bigger than a course grain of Sand , the which were composed of 100 other smaller Particles , all very transparent , and appearing thro the Glass like a little Mountain of Crystal , which was a very agreeable spectacle .
I saw likewise several Crystal Particles , which , instead of ending in one hexangular point like others , consisted of several sharp ones , some of which were very different both in length and thickness from the rest , which confirmed my opinion , that they were coagulated out of long Particles .
I observed , that where the little Flint Stones had not lain very close to one another , the void space , as it appeared to the naked eye , had also been filled with the said Crystal Matter ; but when I came to view them more narrowly , I could perceive that those Crystal parts were indeed united to the little Flint Stones , but that there were several small Cavities between them ; from whence I concluded , that the Flint Stones lying so upon one another , as we now find 'em , a fluid Crystalline Matter , out of which all the Crystals were coagulated , had insinuated it self between those Flint Stones ; and where those Stones were not so closely joined , there did not happen to be enough of that Crystalline Matter to fill up the vacant space .
I have thought fit to represent two of the so named Crystal Particles , ( as they appeared to me thro my Microscope ) whose superficies ended in such points as I have before mentioned .
Fig. 1 .
ABCDEF shows you one of the said Crystal Particles , wherein you may observe at AB C , and partly also between DF how it had been joined , and how also it had been broken off from other Crystal Particles ; between DE F ' is that part from whence proceeds several prominent points , which the Painter has described to the best of his power .
Fig. 2 .
GHIKLMN Represents a larger Particle of Crystal which had been joined to another Particle lying by it ; as in GHIKO is shown that part that had not been united , and in which , as far as it is possible , the several prominent Points are described by LMNG O. In handling these foremention 'd Crystal Particles , I found that they were separated from one another with very little trouble ; to make a further proof of the softness thereof , I placed a Particle of it no bigger than a grain of Sand upon a Plate , and then pressing it with my Thumb Nail , it burst into a thousand small pieces , which seemed the stranger to me , because we know generally how hard the Mountain Crystal is .
From this Experiment , I imagined , that what we call wild Crystal is mostly Salt , if perhaps it be not all so .
To make a further trial thereof , I took a piece of the said Crystal about the bigness of a Pea , which I broke off from a Flint Stone , and laid it upon a Silver-Smith 's Wood Coal , and put it into a glowing heat , and then threw it into some clean Rain-Water , whereby it was immediately dissolved into white Powder ; but viewing the same with my Microscope , I saw that there remained some Particles still as big as a grain of Sand .
The small quantity of Water in which the Crystal lay , that was no more than could be contained in a little Thimble , having stood about a quarter of an hour , I observed that the superficies of it was covered with a thin Scum , of which taking a small part , ( as I did again when the said Scum was grown thicker , after the space of 3 or 4 hours ) and placing the same before a Microscope , I saw , that besides several small Particles , of which for the most part the Scum was composed , there lay an unspeakable Number of Salt Particles , and those of very different figures , in so much , that they are not to be described : Some of 'em were Long , Quadrangular and Hexangular Figures , appearing all of 'em to be solid Cubical Bodies ; their longest sides were parallel to one another ; and when I viewed these Coagulated Salts , some of which lay upon the Superficies of the Water , as others were sunk to the bottom , I observed that they were not only grown larger , but that each of 'em was encompassed with several Circles or Circumferences .
Moreover , where the Water was exhaled , there lay such an unspeakable number of small Salt Particles , that they did in a manner escape the sight , insomuch , that in some of 'em it was impossible to discover any figure ; and of some that were yet smaller , there was nothing more to be seen in them than an exceeding slenderness and length ; just as if one saw with the naked Eye very small Particles or Threads of Wool : From which Observation I supposed , that in case I had put the Water a little thicker together , instead of spreading it upon the Glass as thin as it was possible , the Coagulation of the Salt Particles would have been thicker and larger : I concluded too , that most of those very slender and long Particles were of the same figure as the larger .
In short , the Salt Particles were so exceeding numerous , that it is inconcievable by any body but such as have had a sight of 'em .
When a great many of those very Transparent , and as it were Crystalline Salt Particles were become dry , their Trans parency of Brightness did in a manner vanish , and they were changed to Opake Bodies , in which one could not perceive the least Transparency , but they appeared to be a white Matter .
Ppppppppppp This This Discovery made me imagine , that whereas one of these formention 'd Particles , whilst it had any moisture about it , was always increasing , by a Confluence or Coagulation of unspeakably small Salt Particles , all of 'em so firmly united to one another , that they seemed to be so many Crystals ; so when that same moisture was wholly exhaled , the Coagulated Particles were presently separated from each other ; yet the Dissolution was not so efficacious as to deprive them of the figure which they had , but only of their strict Conjunction : So that instead of being one Transparent Body , they were turned into several Bodies , that did not admit the Light , but appeared white to our Eyes .
And I imagined likewise , that when the Water was exhaled at last , those very small Salt Particles , whose figures , by reason of their smallness , had altogether escaped my sight , were not Coagulated upon the great Salt Particles , and so were deprived of their Transparency ; whereas the Transparent Salt Particles that were more thinly Coagulated did preserve their Transparency , but they were but very few .
After that the abovemention 'd Water had stood several days upon the so named wild Crystal , which I had thrown into it glowing hot , I put a very small part of it upon a clean Glass , and placed the Water so , that there came but very little Air to it , and then I could perceive but a very little Coagulation of the Salt Particles ; but , placing the same Water in the Air , I saw that there were a great many Salt Particles coagulated .
In short , there was such an inconceivable Number of exceeding small Salt particls in a little quantity of Water that lay within the ~ of a Pea , that it is impossible to make any man believe it .
I took moreover , some of the Salt Particles ~~ upon the Superficies of the Water , after that it had ~~ eight days , and observed at the same time , that they were not only coagulated much larger together , with very neat and smooth sides and superficies , but also that they were grown much thicker , as well as broader and longer , having been coagulated with so many smaller Salts , that they appeared to be solid Cubical Bodies of Crystal ; but I could not discover , in a great number of those Salts , any two Salt Particles that were like one another .
Now when I perceived that the wild Crystal , after I had heated it glowing hot , had dissolved it self into such inconceivable numbers of small Particles in the Water , I took a small Copper Porringer , the cavity of which made half a Globe ; and having cleaned the same very well , I put into a little Water a little of the said Crystal , and placed it over a Wood Coal , with so much heat , that it was boiling in the space of a minute , and kept it there till the Water had almost evaporated ; after which , I mixed the remainder with Rain Water , and put some of the same upon several clean Glasses , to see , whether the Water , by the above-mentioned boiling , was not also impregnated with Salt Particles .
This Water being mostly exhaled , I discovered in it several Salt Particles , almost of the same figure as the former ; but , forasmuch as the Water in which the glowing wild Crystal was put , had been wholly exhaled ; the last Glasses were altogether covered with a Vapour which mostly surrounded the Salt Particles ; the which Salt Particles I imagined to be very soft , and which were also covered with a very thin Membrane .
To satisfy my self further concerning the last Observation , I heated the Glass upon which the last Salt Particles lay , till the Vapour or Moisture was quite exhaled , and then I could perceive a great many small Salts that I had not seen before , but nothing near so many as came out of the first Water ; after the space of about an hour , it being moist weather , I viewed the Glass again , and found the Waterish Vapour lying so thick about the Salt Particles , as if none of it had been exhaled .
Ppppppppppp2I have I have thought good to give you a Sample of some few of the Salt Particles that were coagulated in that Water , in which the glowing Crystal was quenched , that you may better conceive the Figures of them .
Fig. 3 .
Shows you between P and Qa little Figure of a Salt , in which such a Salt Particle lay , that according to all appearance was at first coagulated , and afterwards arrived at that bigness when the Water was quite exhaled .
By Fig. 4 .
between R and S is another Salt Particle described , having likewise within it a Coagulated Salt Particle , which at R. has two right Angles , and at S. an acute one , both the long sides thereof running Parallel , and at equal distance from each other ; of these Figures there were a great many .
Fig. 5 .
T. U. shows you an Hexangular Figure , wherein also lay a smaller of the same shape , the which enclosed Figure was very thick .
By Fig. 6 .
between W. and X. is represented a Salt Particle , whose superficies made an exact square ; Of these Figures I met with very few , especially where the Water had lain thick .
Fig. 7 .
Y. Z. describes a Figure , the like of which , I did discover an exceeding number , altho the same were very thin .
Fig. 8 .
shows also between A. and B. another Salt Particle , of which there were an unspeakable number coagulated in the Water .
Having made a great many Experiments in the last mentioned Water till it was quite exhaled , and having also poured new Water twice upon the so named wild Crystal , I saw with great surprise , that each time there was a Coagulation of new Salts upon the superficies of the Water ; but most of them so very small , that they appeared thro the Microscope no bigger than a Grain of Sand to the naked Eye , and yet I could perceive the Figures of them very clear , and the more , because they were all of them very transparent ; and whereas a great many Salt Particles are so soft , that in moist Weather they are dissolved into a Watery Vapour , these were so hard and so dry likewise , as if they had been the salt of Chalk ; and if one shook the Glass in which they were , they came off from it , especially those Salt Particles that were pretty large .
After these Observations I took another View , by the help of a Microscope , of several pieces of my Mountain or Rock Crystal , just as I had broke it off from the Stone , in which I had formerly discovered , amongst others , some such figures as are described in Fig. 5 .
between T U ; and now observing again an Hexangular piece of Crystal which ended also in a point of the like shape , I discovered in the same several pointed blue small Crystals , as you see in Fig. 9 .
between C and D. They were of several sizes , and some of them a finer blue than the rest .
I also discovered in another piece of Crystal much the like Figure , but none of them were blue , some of which were as transparent as Crystal , and the others again as dark as if they had been nothing but a blackish Earth ; some of them lay much deeper in the Crystal than the others .
I had one piece of Crystal , in which I counted above 30 little blue Figures , such as are described by Fig. 9 .
and some of them so very small , that they appeared no larger thro a Microscope than a grain of course of Sand to the naked Eye ; and as far as I could judge of 'em , they were most of them Hexangular ; but I observed , that some of them were not so perfect and regular as the rest , one point of them being bigger than the others , as they are described in Fig. 10 .
between E F. I saw also one little Figure lying , that was exactly of equal sides , but the fore-sides thereof ran obliquely , and the superficies of the same did also consist of an exact quadralateral Figure ; it was moreover as bright as Crystal , appearing just like one of those Diamonds of the ordinary sort , which we call thick Stones .
Is it not extremely surprising to see the abovemention 'd Figures incorporated in such a hard matter ?
Some of them lying near the superficies of the Crystal , and some of 'em much deeper .
I have a piece of Rock Crystal that is Hexangular , and ending in an Hexangular point ; it is about a Finger thick , and an Iuch long ; upon one side of it one could discover with the naked Eye little cavities or holes , about the largeness of half a Nail , the which cavities seemed , for the most part , to be filled with an Earthy matter ; but when I placed the said Crystal before my Microscope , my opinion of it was , that while the said Crystal was growing or coagulating , several small Insects running about upon it , were irretiated or imprisoned therein ; the rather because that some other Particles lay yet deeper in the Crystal , and so they were altogether shut up in the same .
The Bodies of these Insects or Worms were composed of very small and slender Circles , or Ring-like parts , as I have observed frequently in such Animalcula .
I placed the said piece of Crystal before a Microscope , and caused the Painted to draw a small part of one of these seeming Insects that lay pretty deep in the Crystal , as you may see in Fig. II .
GHI K. I could see no further of this Part , because the ends thereof , viz. G and I , were covered with other such like Particles ; and this was also the largest Body that I could discover amongst them , for the other Particles were broke into much smaller bits and pieces .
Amongst all those that I observed , there was but one Particle that ended in a point , and that I judged to be a part of the Tail , as I guessed that another had been a Head ; I saw also two small Particles that had been alike green , and so were several other little pieces of Insects .
I had two pieces of Crystal , of which the smallest was above an inch thick and Hexangular , wherein I discovered seven long Particles , the largest of which was no thicker than the Hair of a Mans Head ; they were of a dark grey colour , and had at one end several thinner Particles , or little Fibres branching out some others were much finer than the single Hair , and some of them of exceeding fineness .
In another and thicker Crystal , I saw above five and twenty more such long Particles ; and notwithstanding that I broke that Crystal into pieces , to discover of what Matter these Particles were composed , yet I could not succeed therein .
I saw indeed that one of 'em had a sort of a Cavity in it , and was round , another flat without any hollowness , and in another piece of the broken Crystal I could perceive a Triangular long Particle that was hollow ; this last was very visible , because one end of it lay opposed to my sight .
I saw also another very plainly that was Triangular likewise , two sides of which were a third part broader than the other ; but I was not very sure that it was hollow : I saw also another long Particle that was Quadralateral , of which the two opposite sides were twice as broad as the other two ; and forasmuch , as I was well assured , that it could never have been any Hair or Particles of Wool , nor had I ever seen any Vegetable that had produced such fine slender Parts , I could not come to any conclusion what for a substance it was , and much less how they could come into the Crystal , in which they lay across or athwart one another .
I have observed before , that when I place ' such Rock Crystal over the Fire , it burst into a great many pieces ; from whence I inferred , that in the same there must be shut up either some Vapour , or else Particles of Salt , that occasioned its breaking into so many pieces ; to discover which , I put into a little Glass several pieces of such broken Crystal ; and observed that by the Fire a very little Moisture and Salt was drawn off from the same ; but when I threw some of those pieces of Crystal , as glowing hot as I could make them , into Water , I could not discover , as I had done in others , any Salt Particles Coagulated upon the Superficies of the Water .
However , I took some more pieces of Crystal , and placed 'em upon a Wood Coal , and the small remainder thereof , which the Heat had not forced to fly away , I threw into some clean Rain Water ; and tho I could discover no Salt Particles upon the superficies thereof , yet I took several times some of the said Water , and poured it upon the cleanest Glasses I could get ; and after that it had stood some time both in moist and dry Weather , I viewed it often , and always perceived , that there lay a great many Salt Particles of different figures coagulated , but could not discover the exact figure of the most of em , because the Water did not exhale ; but I supposed that there were Salts of two kinds therein , viz. the Salts that were already coagulated , and other Salts that surrounded the aforementioned coagulated Salts .
I viewed these Salt Particles in the afternoon , in clear Weather , in the month of April ; and next day in the morning about 6a Clock perceived them to be surrounded with so many seeming Water Particles , that one would be amazed to see it .
Amongst the said Salt Particles , when I had a very clear view of them , I observed some of them of the same figure with the Crystals , to wit , Hexangular ; and just as our Rock Crystal is of an Hexangular figure , ending in points of the same shape , so likewise had these coagulated Salt Particles two Hexangular points , as they are described by Fig. 12 .
between L and M. I imagined to my self , that in case the Rock Crystal in in its Coagulation had lain in such a position , as not to be united at both ends , but only in the middle , they would then have been composed of two Hexangular points , as we see in Salt Petre , which in coagulating in the Water , and fixing one of its sides to any other substance , is not only Hexangular , but the ends thereof , which run into a point , are not Hexangular like Crystals , but oftentimes of the form of a Chisfile .
I saw a little Particle of Crystal , which tho very small , I could perceive to be of a Triangular shape , two Angles of it being a little larger than the third , as is represented in Fig. 13 .
between N and O. I saw also some Salt Figures like Fig. 8 .
between A and B , but they had a thickness in 'em which was visible to the Eye , besides a great many other irregular Salt Particles , which were so very numerous in a small quantity of Water , that I was astonished at it .
I caused the Water , that almost always surrounds the Salt Particles , to exhale leisurely by the warmth of a Candle , and then I could discover a great many coagulated small Salts without any visible figure .

