II .
A Letter from Mr Anthony van Leeuwenhoek , F. R. S. concerning Spiders , their way of killing their Prey , Spinning their Webs , Generation , &amp;c. Delft in Holland , June 21 .
1701 A Certain Gentleman sitting in his Garden , and observing a Spider of a blackish colour , and its Body like Chagrin Leather , took a small Twig , and pressing it therewith , out of the upper part of the Body there came forth a great number of small Spiders .
This appeared a strange Paradox to me , and I wished that I might partake of such a wonderful sight .
I objected to this Gentleman , that possibly the Spider was carrying its young ones on its back when he saw it , and that thro the uneveness of those Creatures , the Skin of the Spider appeared like Chagrin Leather .
Having then prepared such Glasses as were proper to contain the Spiders that I intended to observe , tho I was persuaded I should make but little of my Remarks in the Winter season , yet seeing about the latter end of February a Black Spider running about the House , I took him up , and viewing him with my Microscopes , I observed that his Body and Legs were covered with a great number of Hairs , that stood as thick upon his Carcass as the Bristles on a Hogs Back ; from whence I concluded that it was not the same Spider my Friend had seen .
Tho the Legs were very Hairy , yet were they so clear , that I could easily perceive the Circulation of the Blood , in several Veins which were not a hairs breadth distance from one another ; and afterwards I saw other fine BloodZ zzzz vessels , vessels , that were not the tenth part of a hairs breadth distant from each other .
I could not , with the strictest observation , discover the Course of the Arterial Blood , but I could see , even in the smallest of the Legs , three Vessels together that conveyed the Blood directly to the Heart .
Notwithstanding that this Creature is by the Ancients esteemed a Bloodless Insect , because they could discover no red matter in the Body when they killed it , or crushed it to pieces , yet I did perceive some particles of Blood , which according to all appearance were Spherical , circulating in a liquid matter , as plainly as if you were to see so many small Peas rolling off a gentle Declivity .
But these particles of Blood were extremely small , in comparison of those Globules that are discovered in largeer Creatures , for I saw a space of three hairs breadth , where no Particles of Blood circulated in the Veins , and the Blood was expelled with great swiftness .
I have viewed this Spider a great many times , and at last on the 8th of March I could see the Blood in one of the Arteries , but could not for my life discover where the Circulation began .
This Spider getting away from me , and I not being able to meet with another as big , I deferred my farther Observations till the Spiders in the Gardens and Vineyards , or other places where they make their Webs , were come to their full growth .
I have often taken up that sort of Spider , whose Breech is much larger and thicker than others , to see whither I could discover anyCirculation of theBlood in them too , but in vain ; which put me upon considering whither they had any Globules , or round Particles in their Blood ; to satisfy my self herein , I cut off one of the hinder Legs of such a Spider , and viewed the Blood that ran out , in which I found so few Globules that they are not to be named ; but wounding him in the Breast , or fore-part of his Body , and observing the Blood that flowed from thence , I discovered abundance of Globules in it ; and cutting off part of the Leg of another Spider , I found more Globules there , tho I could not perceive any Circulation of the Blood in the Legs .
I have often seen a Spider hanging down from a Branch of a Tree by a Thread of his own making , and holding fast by one of his Hind-Legs , which has three particular Claws , two of which are at the very end , and each Claw is armed with several Teeth like Saws , that towards the joining with the Foot grow narrower and closer together , and where the Thread it has spun , may be close twisted , just as we see in a Pulley , which in the beginning is wide and large , but the longer it grows the narrower it is , in which the Clock-makers put their Lines , to fasten the weight thereon .
I thought it necessary to let the Limner take a Draught of the Claws , in order to represent the thing more lively .
Fig. 1 .
ABCDEF represents a small part of the Leg of a Spider , BCD show the two extreme Claws , armed with Teeth like Saws ; E the third that hath no Teeth , which Claw I suppose he uses on several accounts ; this is certain , that when the Spider does not wind himself by his Thread upwards , but runs along his Web , then he takes hold of the spun Thread with this third Claw .
The above-mentioned Spider is provided with eight long , and two short Legs ; and these last stand out on each side of the Head , having such Claws as are before mentioned , notwithstanding what some say , that the Spider has but eight Legs .
Moreover , I discovered eight distinct Eyes , two of which are on the top of the Head , and given him to see what passes above him .
Below those were two other Eyes , to look straight before him .
On each side of the Head were two more , close to one another ; the two foremost Eyes to see , as I suppose , what past collaterally before him , the two hindmost to see the same backwards .
To render this Description more obvious , I caused the Limner to Design the fore-part of the Body .
Fig. 2 .
shows you that part , separated from the Membrane or Skin it lay in ; PQ shows the Eyes that look upwards ; KL those that look straight forwards ; IM the sideways forward ; HN the side-ways backward .
Now if we know that the Spiders Eyes are immovable , having no Muscles belonging to them , it is easy to conceive how necessary eight Eyes are to him , in order to look round about him , the more easily to catch his Prey .
I have often heard speak of the Sting of a Spider , and that with the same he is able to kill a Toad , but having never learned whereabouts this Sting grew , I fancied to my self it must be in the Tail , as it happens in most Flying Insects ; but to my surprise , I found that the Spider has two Instruments or Cases for his Sting in the fore part of his Head , which , when he does not make use of his Sting , he places in great order under his Eyes , and between his two short Legs .
These Stings are crooked like a Claw , and very much resemble the Stings of Scorpions , or Indian Millepedes .
Both the Stings of a Spider have towards the end , and on each side a little hole , from whence , according to all appearance , when he strikes his Enemy , he ejects a liquid matter , which we call Poison .
Fig. 3 .
ABCDE F , &amp;c. shows both the Instruments that contain the Stings ; BC shows you the Sting as it is cased or laid up .
HIK describes the Sting extended , and ready for Battel , C and I the little Holes in each Sting , which Holes go quite thro .
EFG represents the 2 Rows of Teeth which serve for a Case to the Stings , these Teeth are covered with Hairs , which I did not think necessary to design at present ; CB is the Sting in its posture of rest .
These two Rows of Teeth I fancy are given the Spider to hold the Prey that he has hunted and struck with his Sting , so fast that it cannot be wrested from him .
When I put two or three of the biggest sort of Spiders together in the Glass , I observed that when they met , they never parted without an Engagement , in which one has been so wounded sometimes , that his Body was wet with the Blood spilt in the Battel , and that soon after he dyed .
I always observed that the lesser fled from the greater , and when it happened that two of an equal size met together , neither retired , but held one another so fast by their Stings , that one would remain dead without once stirring , and so wet with the Blood it had lost , as if it had lain some time in the Water .
I had one Spider that was wounded by his Antagonist in the thickest part of his Leg , from whence issued one drop of Blood as big as a large Sand ; not being able to use this wounded Leg in running away from his Enemy , he raised it up an end , and presently after the whole Limb fell off from his Body ; and I have observed that when they are wounded in the Breast , or upper part of their Bodies , they always die .
I used to be of opinion , that when the Spider would fasten his Thread to any thing , or join one Thread to another , that the last spun Thread was endued with a sort of a Slimy or Glewy Matter , whereby it stuck to whatever the Spider fastened it , as it happens in Silkworms .
But I have found , on the contrary , that the Spider ca n't fasten his Thread , unless he presses with his Breech upon the place where his Thread is to be fastened , which pressure causes an infinite number of unspeakable able fine Threads to issue out of his Body ; from whence one may conclude , that so soon as those Threads come into the Air they lose their Viscosity or Stickyness .
When I formerly opened or dissected a Spider , in order to discover that Viscous Stringy Matter , which I took to be the beginning of their Web , and not finding it I was amazed , being~ unable to conceive how such a strong Thread could in so short a time proceed out of such a moist Body , strong enough to bear the weight not of one only , but even six Spiders ; and when I endeavoured to find out the manner how they make their Webs , one and the same Thread seemed to me sometimes to consist of a single Thread , and sometimes of four or five , I would fain have seen how the Threads come out of the body of the Spider , but I could not attain to that yet .
Since then I took a Spider and laid her upon her Back , that she could not stir , and with a very fine pair of Pincers pulled out farther a Thread , which I could perceive sticking out of one of the working Instruments , in doing which I saw abundance of very fine Threads coming out of the Body at the same time ; which , as soon as they were one or two hairs breadth distant from the Body , were presently joined together , and so made thick Threads .
Not content with these my Observations , I bethought my self how to fasten these fine Threads whilst they were divided , and just as they came out of the Body of the Spider , that I might make others likewise witnesses of the Infinite number and unconceivable Finenesses of those Threads ; which succeeded with me three several times , and the oftner the better .
But it is impossible for me to describe with the Pen , or even to grave in Copper the extreme Fineness of those Threads , for notwithstanding I used my best Glasses , yet even then they appeared so small as almost to escape the sight .
I endeavoured to tell those Threads as they came out of the Body , but could not , for in some places I found Threads that were 25 times as Thick as others that lay next them .
I caused the Limner to look at some of these Threads , as they came out of the Spider 's Body , who was forced to own that there was no describing them either with Pen or Pencil , and that they could hardly be engraved on Copper Plates , however I have sent them as well done as I could .
Fig. 4 .
MNOPQ represents a part of the Threads , which I think came out of but two of their working Instruments , and are divided from one another , just as they issued from the Body .
Now , as we may perceive that a Spiders Web , which to our naked Eye seem but single , do yet consist of many other Threads , and thereby acquires a greater strength ; we may from hence certainly conclude , that no Flexible Bodies ( excepting Metals , whose parts are strongly cemented by the force of Fire ) can attain to any degree of Strength , unless they consist of long united parts ; and the more these parts are twisted together , or cemented with any Viscous Matter , the stronger they are , which is very obvious in Flax , or Silken Thread , Ropes , &amp;c. And thus also Hair or Wool , according to its Fineness , has more or less strength , because each of those Hairs consists of longer and finer parts , which are not only united by a Viscous Matter to one another , but are also armed with a Skin or Bark , which does more strictly join the Contained Parts .
Now if we seriously reflect on the infinte number of Fine Threads that at once proceed from the Body of such a Spider , and the Reason of the thing , we must own that it ought not to be otherwise , for to make a Thread so thick and strong as is necessary in a Spiders Web , with the Viscous Matter which for that purpose is thrown out of the Spiders Body , ca n't be done near so soon , nor be immediately congealed in the Air , as the thin and fine Threads , a hundred of which being put together , will not , in my opinion , make the hundredth part of the Thickness of one single Hair of my Head : in a word , we may hereby discover the Wisdom of God in the Perfection of his Creatures , tho we little regard such a Thread as this , because it escapes our naked sight .
Whilst I made my observations of this Infinite number of Threads , I was quite amazed to consider the wonderful Instruments that lye hid in the Womb of the Spider , thro which so many Threads must separately proceed .
And tho I could not imagine that I should ever be able to discover this great Mystery , yet I proceeded to the Dissection of the Body of one of the largest Spiders I could get , and very curiously investigated each part of it , and at last , to my great amazement , I discovered the vast number of Instruments , from whence each single Thread proceeded ; yea , the number was so great , that I judged them to be at least four hundred ; but they did not lye by one another , but were divided into eight Distinct Parts or Instruments ; so that if the Spider set all these eight Instruments to work at once , there would proceed from the same eight particular Threads , which were again subdivided into a great number of smaller ; but one of the great Threads would be thicker than the other , because one part of the Body would produce twice as many Threads as the other just by it .
When I viewed the dissected Body with my Microscopes , and the place where the Threads come out , I found that they were shut up by five distinct parts , which at the end are pointed , and cause such a sort of shutting ; but from the middlemost there comes no Thread out .
The other four Instruments , which shoot out these Threads , are covered outwards with thick Hairs , so that all the small Instruments lye inwards ; for this reason ( as imagine ) that they may not receive any damage , when the Spider creeps into any hole where there is no occasion of making his Web , or when he runs along the ground in quest of his prey .
Now if one separates the above-mention 'd four Instruments , one shall find four other lying between them , which contain within them yet smaller and slenderer Instruments , from each of which proceed exceeding fine threads .
After that those four Instruments have been dissected , in order to expose to ones view what lies inwards , the Scene is as of a large Field , covered with an infinite number of pointed Twigs , and each delivering out a single Thread : These Instruments are double , and may be compared to a Reed that is thicker at bottom than at top , out of which proceeded another , the biggest end whereof was encased within the smaller end of the former , and out of the small end of this last came out a Thread of an extraordinary fineness .
Sometimes it happened to me , that I could not discover the Working Instruments in some of the before-mention 'd parts ; which I supposed to be , that , when the Spider did not employ them in making his Web , they were shut up , and then I could see nothing in the place where they used to come out , but small Points or Tips of them , but with a little squeezing , they appeared presently in great numbers .
I observed also , that some few of those parts , from whence the Threads proceeded were larger and longer than the rest , which I suppose did produce Threads of an extraordinary bigness , in comparison of the rest .
Now , if we take it for granted ( as it is really true ) that a young Spider just come out of the Egg is three hundred times smaller than a full grown Spider , and at the same time allow that this young Spider has all the Working Instruments within his Body as the old one , ( which as she grows in bigness are also enlarged in proportion ) we must necessarily conclude that the Threads that are spun by the young , are three hundred times smaller than those spun by the old Spider , which fineness and smallness is hardly to be conceived by us .
I always observed , that when the Spider does not fasten his Thread at one stretch , the Threads are drawn inwards with Bents and Krinkles~ whereupon I concluded that each of those thin Threads was in it self round , but by the addition of several other Threads it acquired a Flatness , as several common Threads laid together appear to us .
The same thing is also observed by our Gold Wiredrawers , whose Threads ( if they break or hang loose ) krinkle , and then always appear round .
I could not forbear describing ( as far as the Limner was able ) the above-mention 'd Instruments , from whence those wonderfully small Threads proceed .
Fig. 5 .
RSTV shows one of the four outermost Instruments , which Instrument , with all its Quills or Reeds together , is not so large as one common Sand ; from whence you may imagine how small those Instruments must be , and how fine the Threads that are encased within the first Instruments .
In the said Figure at W the Working Instruments stood as thick by one another as they do between R and S , but because it is opposite to the sight , and consequently was not easily to be distinguisht , I ordered the Limner to leave that place empty .
Moreover , that part which was from the sight was not covered with those sort of Quills , but with Hairs only .
I made the Limner turn this Instrument about , to have his opinion how many Quills or Reeds he thought there might be , upon which he told me that the number was above one hundred .
I said before , that a few of these Instruments were larger than the rest , and consequently produced a larger Thread ; and showing the Limner such a one that stood between two others ( one of which brought forth a krinkled or harl d Thread ) , I caus 'd him to draw it , as you may see in Fig. 6 .
AB and DE representing the two small ones .
It has happened sometimes , that when I squeezed such an Instrument as Fig. 5 .
instead of Threads , which ought to have appeared , there came out Matter that became a round drop , which I suppose was occasioned for want of a continuation of the same Matter ; whereas the other parts that stood next produced Threads .
When I used to press the hinder part of the Spiders Body , from whence its Web proceeds , with my Tongues or Pincers pretty hard , it has frequently happened that a round particle , in length the third part of an inch , and as thick as a Horse-hair , came out , very Transparent , and of a Tough and Viscous nature , whereupon I thought with my self , whether this might not be the substance whereof the Threads were formed , and also whither the Body of the Spider was not so framed , as to be able to press or insinuate into its Working Instruments that Matter , which was the Foundation of the Threads that issued from thence .
I have often cut off a piece of that part of the Spider 's Body from whence these Threads proceed , and have afterwards drawn out long Threads out of it .
One time I took a very small Frog , the length of whose Body was about an inch and half , and put him into a Glass Tube , and a great Spider by him , in order to see how these two would behave themselves towards each other ; I observed that the Spider past by the Frog without touching him , but yet he had drawn out his Stings , as if he intended to have fallen on him immediately .
Aaaaaa2 After After this I caused the Frog to run against the Spider , who thereupon struck him in the Back with his Stings , and so wounded him in two several places , that in one place he left a red speck , and in the other a blue spot .
Hereupon I brought them together again , then the Spider struck his Strings into the Fore-leg of the Frog , who upon that struggled so hard that the Spider was forced to leave him , and I observed that some few of the Blood-vessels in the Frogs Legs were wounded .
Once again I forced the Frog to justle the Spider , who upon that struck both his Stings into the Nose of the Frog , after which they both stood still about half a minute , then I opened the Glass and took the Spider out , and for the Frog he sat about an hour without any motion , then stretched out his hinder Legs , and so died .
The next day I took another Frog about the same size with the former , and another Spider , and put them both into the same Glass , the Spider past by the Frog without meddling with him , but when I suddenly shook them together , the Spider struck both his Stings in the back of the Frog , but I could not perceive that he had wounded him so far as the Veins , for there was no Blood spilt .
This Frog was very shy of the Spider , and as soon as the Spider came near him , or touched him with his Feet or Claws , the Frog used his utmost efforts to avoid him .
Again , I brought the Frog so near as to touch the Spider with the fore-part of his Body , who thereupon gave him two Blows with his Stings in the lower part of his Head , one of which pierced the Blood-Vessels , so that there remained a red spot after ; the Spider presently quitted the Frog , because of the strong efforts the other made to get from him , and then set herself to cleanse her Stings with a moisture that came from her Mouth for that purpose ; then I separated the Spider from the Frog , and viewed the Circulation of the Blood in the Veins of the latter , that I might see whither any Alteration was therein , occasioned by the Wound received of the Spider , but I could discover nothing , neither could I perceive that the Frog had got any harm , for the next day she was as brisk as if nothing had ailed her .
Now it is possible , that the stinging of Spiders in hotter Countries may be more pernicious than in our Climate ; it is also possible , that this Spider might have spent his Poison lately , by wounding another Spider , or any other Creature .
When I had kept this Frog four days in my Glass Tube , and found that he was never the worse for the stinging of the Spider , I threw her into the Water and observed that she endeavoured to swim towards Land , to get out of the Water , as indeed all Frogs do in deep Waters , for fear of being devoured by the Fishes .
I mentioned something before of the Blood of Spiders , which I have since observed again , and found that every Particle of Blood consists of several other smaller parts , and persuaded my self that each Particle was composed of six others , analogous to the Blood of our Bodies , and moreover several other little Particles , which were some less than others ; but these last Particles were in no wise visible till the fine Serum of the Blood was quite exhaled .
Moreover , in viewing the Blood that came out of the Feet that were cut off , I observed that if I spent any time in looking on it , the Serum would exhale , and the Salt Particles would cleave together like so many fine Twigs or Branches , just as the night-dews when congealed against our Glass-windows ; but when I left off looking , and laid the Glass by , the air being cool , the Cristaliz 'd Salts returned to their former shape ; and again , if I brought my warm hand but half a minute near the Glass , all the Salt Particles were coagulated again ; but with breathing a little on them they were quickly reduced to a clear Water .
This was no small diversion for me , to see the Salts , which seemed to have their rise from a Point or exceeding small particle of Blood , stream and branch themselves as it were into Trees .
After this , I took up another Spider , and put him into my Glass Tube , in order to discover the Circulation of the Blood ; and saw it very plain both in the Veins and Arteries ; and his Legs being very Transparent , like those Spiders that are found in Trees or Shrubs , I saw several times ( and that presently one after another ) a sudden and brisker motion of the Blood , which I suppose was occasioned by every Systole and Diastole of the Heart .
I took another Spider that I found in a Thistle , which was eight times less than the great Garden Spider , and observed the Circulation of his Blood , which I could easily perceive both in the Veins and Arteries .
In the middle , or about the latter end of the month of October , I took several of the largest Spiders I could get , and shut them up severally in Glass Tubes , that they might lay their Eggs , and to see what I could discover in the said Eggs , the time being come that they could get no more food , the Flies and other winged Insects which they used to prey on , being all gone ; but I was amazed to find in their Excrements whole Wings and Heads and Legs of small Flies , which were so large that I could not conceive how they past thro their Bodies .
On the 30th of October , I observed that two of my Spiders had laid Eggs , and had covered them with so vast a quantity of their Web , that I was astonished how they could do it in a few hours .
I took the Web , and the Eggs that were enclosed , and opened several of them , which I found to be of a yellowish colour .
These Eggs were almost round , and the Axis of one of them was about the 30th part of an Inch , and when they lay all together , they made a roundish Body , whose Axis was 1/ 2 of an inch ; but if you looked upon them sideways , their Diameter appeared 1/ 4 of an inch ; from whence it is very easy to reckon what a vast number of Eggs one Spider will lay .
Upon a narrow view of this great heap of Eggs that lay in order by one another , one would be apt to judge that it were impossible for such a number of them to proceed from the body of one Spider , than which they seemed much larger .
But the wonder will cease , when we consider ( as I always observed when I opened the Spiders ) that the Eggs are not exactly round while they lye in the Spider 's Body , but being pressed together , they assume particular Figures , in order ( if I may so say ) to their own convenience .
These Eggs being round , and lying in order , and touching each other but in one point , must needs take up more room than when they lay in the Spider 's Belly .
The Membrane or Shell of these Eggs is very weak , so that in endeavouring to separate them , because they stick to one another by a Viscous Matter , I could not help breaking them oftentimes .
On the last of October , about five in the evening , I observed that another Spider had made his Web against the sides of the Glass Tube , in order to lodge his Eggs there ; and whereas before I could not imagine how the Spider had placed his Eggs in the middle of the Glass , I was now fully satisfied in that matter , for I saw plainly that she made her Web like a thick Bed against the Glass ; that as yet there was no Eggs in it ; and that which was most remarkable was , that this Bed was not flat , but had a well-contrived hollowness within it , not exactly round , but oval .
About 40 minutes after I viewed the Spider again , and found that the said Bed was not only full of Eggs , but that there was a great heap of them standing above the Bed , and the Spider very busy in covering her Eggs with her Web on every side , using her two hinder Feer as well as her Breech to fasten the Threads that proceeded from thence , and to range them all in order ; all her Working Instruments were open , and all of them seemed to me to be delivering out Thread for the Work , sometimes she raised up her Body a straw 's breadth , then removed it as much , that the Threads might have a freer passage , and cover her Eggs the better .
When she was delivered of all her Eggs , her Body was not the fourth part so large as before , and tho lately smooth and distended , it was now filled with Wrinkles and Cavities .
On the 30th of October I carried some of the Eggs in a Glass Tube about me , to see whether the heat of my Body would hatch the young Spiders , which we know usually come out of their Eggs in Spring .
I concluded now , that all Spiders that in the latter part of the year have great Bodies , are big with Egg .
I was farther desirous to see how the Spider laid her Eggs , and the 7th of November I had my wish in some measure , for I saw 6 or 8 Eggs laid , which did not come out of the hind-most part of the Body , as in all other Creatures , but from the upper part of the Belly , not far from her hind-legs , where grows a sort of a Hook of a particular form , much like that , wherewith old men fasten their Breeches and Doublets together , of which when I saw it before , I could not conceive the use , this Hook came partly over the opening , out of which the Eggs proceed , thro which I did believe she discharged her Excrements .
I could have wished indeed , that I had come sooner to the laying of the Eggs , that I might have mentioned it with greater certainty , for the Spider , as soon as ever she had laid her Eggs , covered them with her Web .
But because I would be fully satisfied in the matter , I took several Spiders that had not yet laid , and throwing them on their backs , I pressed their Bellies , whereby I had not only a clear view of the opening , but by squeezing a little harder , I made a great many Eggs come out , and not the least moisture proceeded from the hinder part of the Body .
This Experiment convinced me , that that was the place from whence she voided both her Eggs and Excrements .
I thought fit to let the Limner draw such a Spider of an ordinary size as she lay on her Back , with her Legs contracted as if she had been dead , in order to show , if possible , the afore-mention 'd place .
Fig. 7 .
ABC represents the Spider in such a posture , and D the Hook .
I separated the said Hook from the Spider 's Body , and placing it before my Glass , I gave it the Limner to draw as it appeared to him .
Fig. 8 .
GHIK shows the Hook as it appeared through the Microscope , between I and K the Wrinkles or Folds are seen , which I imagine were made to produce a more than ordinary motion .
OF shows you that part of it that joined it to the Body .
I never was so happy as to see theSpiders couple ; a certain Gentleman told me that they coupled Back to Back ; but what shall we say , the Coition of Spiders must differ fundamentally from other Creatures , since their Matrix is placed in the upper part of the Belly ; however it be , our Curiosity must be deferred till next October .
I thought with my self , whether the use of the foresaid Hook might not be to range and place the Eggs : In the said Fig , 8 .
between F and G are two round Balls , but I cannot imagine the use of them .
I told you before , that I carried the Eggs of a Spider so long about me till all the Moisture was exhaled ; but no young ones hatched ; from which experiment I concluded that these were the Eggs of a Spider , that had never coupled with the Male .
I made the same Experiment with the Eggs of a second Spider , and met with the same success .
The first of January was the third time that I took a Spider 's Eggs , and putting them into a Glass Tube , carried them about me ; they were laid by the largest Spider that I had seen the last Summer , and it was one of the last I could meet with in the Gardens .
I viewed them several days without opening them , and finding no alteration in them , which I attributed to the cold weather , I kept them four days without looking at them , imagining I should have no better luck with them than with the rest ; but upon the 17th of the same month , in the morning , viewing them again , I saw five and twenty young Spiders that were come out of so many Eggs , and about five and twenty more whose Bodies were but half out of the Egg-shell , and some of them had their Shells hanging upon their Tail , and in the evening about six a clock I reckoned one hundred and fifty young ones .
The next day I viewed them again , and then I concluded that no more Spiders would come out of the Eggs ; and that several of them which I saw lying about the Glass were Barren , and that in others the young Spiders were dead , the number of which I judged to be about fifty , and about ten or twelve Eggs were blackish .
When the Glass Tube and the young Spiders that were in it had been out of my Pocket but 15 minutes , in the very cold weather , I could hardly discover any life or motion in some of them ; but so soon as the Glass Tube had been a little warmed again , they were brisk and lively , and most of them got together in a company , as we see in swarms of Bees , and so hung about the Web , where the Eggs had been lodged before .
On On the 21st of January I could perceive the eight Eyes in every Spider , which before were not so visible ; but now being of a brown or darkish colour , they were easily distinguishable from the fore-part of their Body , which was white , as the hinder part was yellowish .
Now if we consider what an infinite number of Spiders are produced by one , and in how short a time , we ca n't conceive whence , or how they get their Food , especially since the old ones , as far as I could see , feed upon nothing but Living Creatures .
On the 22d of January I observed that the Legs of a great many Spiders ( which before had been clear and transparent ) did now assume a dark colour , and afterwards began to be covered with Hair , whereas I could perceive none a little before .
On the 23d of the same month their Legs grew darker , and so did the hinder-part of their Bodies whence their Web proceeds , and that also began to be covered with Hairs ; then I observed likewise a great many Particles of a Moist or Watery Matter hanging on the sides of the Glass , which moisture I had not before taken notice of ; but now there was so much of it , that the Barren Eggs , which before rolled freely about the Glass , were glued on to it by this Viscous Matter , which did so much abound , that the young Spiders had much ado to pass thro it ; I observed too that they had cast their very thin Skins , and began to be much nimbler in their motions .
The 25th I saw faw them spin a Thread , and manage it with their hind-feet as well as the old ones : I observed too that they had eat up the Barren Eggs , and the others wherein I did suppose the young ones to be dead , which were about fifty in number ; for a few days after there was nothing remaining but the bare Shells .
I have compared the Threads of a full-grown Spider with one of the Haris of my Beard , whereof I took the Bbbbbb2 thick thickest part and placed it before the Microscope , and according to my nicest observation , I judged that above one hundred of those Threads laid together did not equal the Diameter of one Hair of my Bread ; now supposing this Hair to be round , ten thousand of the Fine Threads of a Spiders Web , are not thicker than one single Hair of a Mans Head .
Now if we add to this , as it is most certainly true , that four hundred young Spiders , when they first begin to spin , are not , one with another , bigger than one full grown Spider , and that each of those young ones is provided with all the Working Instruments of the old one , 'twould follow that the smallest Thread of such a young Spider is 400 times smaller than that of a great one ; and if so , then 4000000 , Threads of a young Spider are not so big as the Hair of ones Head ; but then again , if we consider of how many parts one of those smallest Threads consists , we must stand astonished , and own we know nothing .
I observed that half the young Spiders were smaller in the hinder part of their Bodies than the rest , which last I supposed to be Males .
Also that most of these young Spiders had bored into the Web , and in a manner lodged themselves therein , which made me suspect that for want of other Meat they had fed on the Web , and the more because some of them were grown pretty big .
On the 30th of January most of them were employed in weaving their Web , so that the Glass swarmed with 'em .
On the 8th of February I could perceive that many of the Spiders had eat one another up , and at the very time I looked on them , there were four upon one , whom they had almost devoured , and here and there I saw pieces of Legs , and now the Shells of the Barren Eggs were eat up so clear , that I could see nothing of 'em remaining .
On the 10th of February my Spiders were reduced to half their number , and those that remained were eating the Thickest of their Companions Legs .
These Spiders diminished daily , so that on the last of the said month I could see but thirty of 'em alive , among which a few were twenty times as big as some that remained .
On the 5th of March I could see but 3 or 4 alive , and about the Web I observed a black Matter , about which the Spiders had swarmed very much , and found that it was nothing else but a heap of Legs of those young Spiders , whose Bodies had been devoured .
I kept by me the Eggs of several Spiders in Glass Tubes in my Closet , and particularly on the 24th of January I put the Eggs of two different Spiders in two distinct Glasses , and on the 6th of February could perceive in one of them 3 young ones crawling out of the Web .
I took one of those young Spiders , whose Egg-shell was still hanging at his Tail , and set him before my Microscope in the open Air , and tho the fore-part of his Body was as bright as Glass , yet I could not perceive the least motion in the inner parts ; from whence I concluded that the Heart was not settled in their Breast , for if it had been there I must needs have perceived the Motion thereof ; now therefore I believe it lay near the Eyes , where it was not so Transparent , for that the Expulsion of the Blood in a Spider proceeds from the Heart , is , I think , not to be doubted .
I endeavoured moreover to discover the Circulation of the Blood in the Legs of these small Creatures , which observation succeeded with me several times .
When I cast my Eyes upon the hinder part of their Bodies , I could perceive that the Entrails thereof consisted of a vast number of Globules of several sizes , of which the Eggs are composed .
On the 7th of February I could not perceive that there were any more young Spiders come out of the Web , but I saw at least five and twenty Egg-shells lying without the Web .
On the 9th of the said month a few young Spiders were come out of the Web , that had cast their Skins , and others were crowded together in the Web .
On the 10th ditto all the young Spiders were got out , and had shed their Coats , before which time I do n't believe they endeavoured to come out .
On the 12th of February I laid one of the Glass Tubes upon my Desk , to see how the Spiders would fare in cold weather , and the next morning I found that most of them were crept into their Web ; but after I had carried them some hours in my Pocket , I found that they were come abroad again .
The 20th of February I took two young Spiders out of the said Glass Tube , and put them into another that was thinner , and stopped both ends of this other Tube with Paper , so that they might not get out , and yet have air enough .
The 14th of April I perceived that one of my Spiders , lay dead , and the other very well and lively ; but on the 26th of the same month it began to flag in its motion and the next day it was dead also , and yet I could not see that one had hurt t'other ; whereupon I concluded , that these young Spiders will live more than two months , if it be cold weather , without eating .
In the great Glass Tube , from whence I had taken the abovemention 'd two Spiders that had been hatched at the same time , there were still , that is to say on the 26th of April , twenty young Spiders alive , sitting altogether in the Web , which they had spun without once touching or running about the Glass , because , as I suppose , the Glass was too cold for them ; and on the 22d of May there were but three of them living , which I could not perceive to be grown much bigger ; the rest of them lay by dead , but mostly devoured by the longest livers .
In the second Glass Tube , which I had carried about me a long time , the young Spiders that were therein did not live near so long as the others ; the reason whereof was , as I conceive , that the warmth of my Body caus 'd them to Perspire more , and consequently to stand in need of their Food sooner .
Now I had in my Desk the Eggs of six distinct Spiders , which I often viewed , to know when the young Spiders would come out of them ; and on the 20th of May I observed the Eggs to change colour a little ; and on the 22d the young ones were Hatched , and lay so close to one another in the Web , that they took up but little more room than when they were in their Shells , and I could not discover any motion in them , only they that lay outermost stirred their Legs a little .
Thus , I have given you my Thoughts and poor Observations about Spiders ; which Creature , in the eyes of some people , is so odious or terrible , that they will not come near them ; in which however we have discovered as much perfection and hidden Beauties as in any other Creature ; for when I took the Fleshy Muscles out of their Legs , and viewed them thro the Microscope , I was astonished at their Transparency , and they seemed to be one Body ; but when I came to separate them , I found that they were composed of very long Particles , each consisting of so many Folds or Wrinkles , that the Muscle might be dilated or contracted , as there should be occasion .
The following Book being rarely to be met with , is thought worth reprinting .
The Teeth mentioned in it may be seen in the Repository of the Royal Society in Gresham College .

