1I .
" On the Equation of Differences for an Equation of any Orderi , and in particular for the Equations of the Orders Two , Three , Four , and Five .
" By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received March 2 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The term equation of differences , dellotes the equationi for the squared differences of the roots of a given equation ; the equation of differences afforded a means of determining the number of real roots , and also limits for the real roots of a given numerical equiation , and was upon this account long ago sought for by geometers .
In the Philosophical Transactions for 1763 , Waring gives , but without demonstration or indication of the mode of obtaining it , the equation of differences for an equation of the fifth order wanting the second term : the result was probably obtained by the method of symmetric fuinctions .
This method is employed in the ' Meditationes Algebraicae ' ( 1 782 ) , where the equation of differences is given for the equations of the third and fouirth orders wanting the second terms ; and in p. 85 the before-mentioned result for the equation of the fifth order wanting the second term , is reproduced .
The formule for obtaining by this method the equation of differences , are fully developed by Lagrange in the ' Traite ' des Equations Numeriques ' ( 1808 ) ; and he finds by means of them the equation of differences for the equations of the orders two and three , and for the equation of the fourth order wanting the second term ; and in Note III .
he gives , after Waring , the result for the equation of the fifth order wanting the second term .
It occurred to me that the equation of differences could be most easily calculated by the following method .
The coefficients of the equation of differences , qua functions of the differences of the roots of the given equation , are leading coefficients of covariants , or ( to use a shorter expression ) they are " Seminvariants " , that is , each of them is a function of the coefficients which is reduced to zero by one of the two operators which reduce a covariant to zero .
In virtue of this property they can be calculated , when their values are known , for the particular case in which one of the coefficients of the given equation is zero .
To fix the ideas , let the given equation be ( *)Iv , I)fn=O ; then , when the last coefficient or constant term vanishes , the equation breaks up into v=0 and into an equation of the deg , ree ( n1 ) , which I call the reduced equation ; the equation of differences will break up into two equations , one of which is the equation of differences for the reduced equation , the other is the equation for the squares of the roots of the same reduced equation .
This hardly requires a proof ; let the roots of the given equation be a , 3 , y , , &amp;c. , those of the equation of differences are ( a_O)2 , ( a_y)22 ( a-z)2 % &amp; C. , ( / 3_)y)2 , ( / 3_4)2 ( , _.)2 , &amp;c. ; but in putting the constant term equal to zero , we in effect put one of the roots , say a , equal to zero ; the roots of the equation of differences thus become p2,2 2 &amp; c ( / 3y)2 , ( 13a)2 , ( 7_4)2 &amp;c. The equation for the squares of the roots can be found without the slightest difficulty ; hence if the equation of differences for the reduced equation of the order ( nI ) is known , we can , by combining it with the equation for the squares of the roots , form the equation of differences for the given equation with the constant term put equal to zero , and thence by the above-mentioned property of the Seminvariancy of the coefficients , find the equation of differences for the given equation .
The present memoir shows the application of the process to equations of the orders two , three , four , and five : part of the calculation for the equation of the fifth order was kindly performed for me by the Rev. R. Harley .
It is to be noticed that the best course is to apply the method in the first instance to the forms ( a , 6,..1jv , O)=l=O , without numerical coefficients ( or , as they may be termed , the denumerate forms ) , and to pass from the results so obtained to those which belong to the forms ( a , 6,..Iv , l)fn=0 , or 8tandard forms .
The equation of differences , for ( ac-3)2 , &amp;c. , the coefficients of which are seminvariants , nlaturally leads to the consideration of a more general equation for ( ca0)2 ( x -y)2 ( x y)2 , &amp;c. , the coefficients of which are covariants ; and in fact , when , as for equations of the orders two , three , and four , all the covariants are known , such covariant equation can be at once formed from the equation of differences ; for equations of the fifth order , however , where the covariants are not calculated beyond a certain degree , only a few of the coefficients of the covariant equation are given .
At the conclusion of the memoir , I show how the equation of differences for an equation of the order n can be obtained by the elimination of a single quantity from two equations each of the order n1 ; and by applying to these two equations the simplification which I have made in Bezout 's abridged method of elimination , I exhibit the equation of differences for the given equation of the order n , in a compendious form by means of a determinant ; the method just employed is , however , that which is best adapted for the actual development of the equation of differences for the equation of a given order .

