Onani Extension of ARBOGAST'S Method of Derivations .
By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , EKR .
S. Received October 18 , -Read December 13 , 1860 .
ARBOGAST'S Method of Derivations was devised by him with a view to the development of a function p(a+bx+cx+ ... ) , but it is at least as useful for the formation of only the literal parts of the coefficients , or , what is the same thing , the combinations of a given degree and weight in the letters ( a , 6 , c , d , ... ) , the weights of the successive letters being 0 , ,,2 , 3 , &amp;c. Thus instead of applying the method to finding the coefficients a4 , 4a3b , 4a3C+6a2b6 , &amp;c. , we may apply it merely to finding the sets of terms a ' , a3b , a3c , &amp;c. a262 To derive any column from the one which immediately precedes it , we operate on a letter by changing it into its immediate successor in the alphabet , and we must in each term operate on the last letter , and also , when the last but one letter in the term is the immediate antecessor in the alphabet of the last letter ( but in this case only ) , operate on the last but one letter .
Thus a3c gives a3d , but a2b2 gives aibc and ab3 , and the next succeeding column is therefore a3d a2bc abl .
If the series of letters is finite , and the last letter of the term is also the last letter of the series , then it is impossible to operate on the last letter of the term , but the last but one letter ( when the foregoing rule applies to it ) is still to be operated on ; and if the rule does not apply , then the term does not give rise to a term in the succeeding column ; the operations will at length terminate , and a complete series of columns be obtained .
Thus , if the letters are ( a , b , c , d ) , and the operations are ( as before ) performed upon a4 , the entire series of columns is aH b aa d a2bd acd a2d2 abd2 aed2 ad3 bd i cd c4 a ab2 abc ac2 ab cd abed acd b"d : bed " ce2 d ab3 ab2c abc2 ac3 bc'2 bccd c3d 6 .
6 b3c b3d be3 c : ~ ~~ipccci4xi.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' G V. ; 1 : MPCCCLXI .
a Nothing can be more convenient than the process when the entire series of columns is required ; but it is very desirable to have a process for the formation of any column apart from the others ; and the object of the present memoir is to investigate a rule for the purpose .
But as ARBOGAST'S rule , applied as above , depends upon very similar principles , I will commence by showing how this rule is to be demonstrated .
If we take any combination b3d and operate backwards on the last letter ( viz. by changing it into its immediate antecessor in the alphabet ) , we obtain b3c , which is a term in the next preceding column ; bld is therefore obtainable from a term in the next preceding column , viz. b3c , and the process is to operate on the last letter .
If , instead of b3d , the term is abc2 ( the last letter here entering as a power ) , the operation backwards on the last letter gives ab2c , which is also a term of the preceding column ; and it is to be noticed that the last but one letter b is here the immediate antecessor of the last letter c ( and would have been so even if b had not entered into the given term abc2 , thus ac2 operated on backwards would have given abc ) .
Hence abc2 is obtained by operating on a term in the next preceding column , viz. the term ab2c , but in this case the operation is performed on the last but one letter .
Every term is thus obtained from the next preceding column , viz. the terms are obtained by operating on the last letter , and ( when the last but one letter is the immediate antecessor in the alphabet of the last letter ) then also on the last but one letter , of each term of the next preceding column , and the correctness of the rule is thus demonstrated .
It is to be observed that the terms are operated upon in order , the operation on the last but one letter ( when it is operatedon ) being made immediately after that upon the last letter of the same term , and that the terms of a column are thus obtained in the proper alphabetical order .
I pass now to the above mentioned question of the formation of a single column by itself ; it will be convenient , by way of illustration , to write down the columns a2e3 ade3 abde2 bee3 no .e " bd'e2 acd2e c2de2 ad4 ed3e.b2ce2 d ' b2d2e bc2de bcds c4e csd2 which belong to the set ( a , b , c , d , e ) , and are of the degree 5 and the weights 12 and 15 respectively .
38 Some definitions and explanations are required .
I speak of the first and last letters of the set , simply as the first and the last letter : there is frequent occasion to speak of the last letter ; and to avoid confusion , the last letter of a term will be spoken of as the ultimate letter ; it is necessary also to consider the penultimate , antepenultimate , and pro-antepenultimate letters of the term .
It will be convenient to distinguish between the ultimate letter and the ultimate , which may be either the ultimate letter or a power of such letter ; and similarly for the penultimate , &amp;c. Thus in the term bed3 , the ultimate letter is d and the ultimate is d3 , the penultimate and the penultimate letter are each of them c ; of course the ultimate , penultimate , &amp;c. letters are always distinct from each other .
We have also to consider the pairs of letters contained in a term ; cd3e contains the pairs ( c , d ) , ( c , e ) , ( d , d ) , ( d , e ) , and so in other cases ; the letters of a pair are taken in the natural order .
A pair not containing either the first letter or the last letter is expansible ; thus the set being as before ( a , b , c , d , e ) , the pairs ( b , c ) , ( d , d ) are expansible : they are expanded by retreating the prior and advancing the posterior letter each one step ; thus the just mentioned pairs ( b , c ) , ( d , d ) , are expanded into ( a , d ) and ( c , e ) respectively .
A pair composed of two distinct non-contiguous letters is contractible ; it is contracted by advancing the prior and retreating the posterior letter each one step : thus ( a , d ) , ( c , e ) are contractible pairs , and they give by contraction the pairs ( b , c ) , ( d , d ) respectively : the processes of expansion and contraction are obviously converse to each other .
The expression the last expansible pair of a term hardly requires explanation ; ( d , d ) is the last expansible pair of the term bed3 , or of the term b'd2e ' , ( c , d ) the last expansible pair of the term c2de ( the set being always ( a , b , c , d , e ) ) , and so in all other cases .
The expression the last expansion , in regard to any term , means the expansion of the last expansible pair of such term .
The expansion or contraction of any pair of a term leaves unaltered as well the weight as the degree , the resulting term belongs therefore to the same column as the original one .
But the effect of an expansion is to diminish , and that of a contraction to increase the alphabetical rank , or rank in the column , the ranks being reckoned as the iirst or lowest , second , third , and so on , up to the last or highest rank .
In particular , by performing upon any term the last expansion , we diminish the rank in the column , and by a succession of last expansions we bring the term up to the head of the column .
Such term is not susceptible of any further expansion ; it may therefore contain the first and last letters or either of them , and it may also contain a single intermediate letter in the first power only ; thus the first and last letters being a , e , the head term of a column is of the form ae or ace , G being some intermediate letter , and the powers eat , eq being both or either of them omittable .
In like manner , by a succession of contractions of any term we obtain the term at the foot of the column ; such term is not susceptible of any further contraction , and it must therefore be composed either of a single letter or of two contiguous letters , that is it must be of the form c " , or of the form c 'd , where c , d are any two contiguous letters , not excluding the case where the single letter or each or either of the contiguous letters is a first or a last letter .
It is to be observed that the passage up from any term to the term at the head of the column ( or top term ) by means of a succession of last expansions , is a perfectly unique one ; but as no selection has been made of a like unique process of contraction , this is not the case with respect to the passage down from any term to the term at the foot of the column ( or bottom term ) by a succession of contractions .
Every term gives by the last expansion a term above it ; it can therefore be obtained from such term above it by means of a contraction .
But the contraction of the upper term is by hypothesis such that , performing upon the contracted term the last expansion , we obtain the upper term ; a contraction , which , performed on any term , gives a lower term , which by performing upon it the last expansion reproduces the first mentioned or upper term , may be called a reversible contractionl .
And it is clear that if we perform on the top term all the reversible contractions , and on each of the resulting terms all the reversible contractions , and so on as long as the process is possible , we obtain without repetition all the terms of the column .
The column is in fact similar to a genealogical tree in the male line , each lower term issuing from a single upper term , while each upper term generates a lower term or terms , or does not generate any such term , and the top term being the common origin of the entire series .
It may be added that when the order of the reversible contractions of the same term is duly fixed , the alphabetical arrangement of the terms in the column agrees with the order as of primogeniture ( an elder son and his issue male preceding all the younger sons and their respective issue male ) in the genealogical tree .
It only remains then to inquire under what conditions a contraction is reversible .
Now as regards any term , in order that a contraction performed on it may be reversible , it is necessary and sufficient that the pair produced by the contraction should be the last expansible pair of the contracted term .
There are several cases to be considered .
F'irst , if the contraction affects the ultimate and penultimate letters of the term : this implies that the ultimate and penultimate letters are not contiguous .
Let the term terminate in eI"h , the contracted term will terminate in e"'fg , and ( f/ g ) , the pair produced by the contraction , is the last expansible pair of the contracted term ; the contraction is in this case reversible .
If , however , the term terminate in e"hP ( p &gt; 1 ) , the contracted term will terminate in e"'-lfigP/ l , and the last expansible pair is not as .
before ( f , g ) , but it is ( according as ?
=2 orp &gt; 2 ) ( g , IA ) or ( h , h ) : unless indeed h is the last letter , in which case ( f , g ) remains the last expansible pair of the contracted term .
In the example em has been written , but the case mn1= is not excluded ; moreover , the penultimate letter e is removed three steps from the ultimate letter 1h , but the result would have been the same if instead of e we had had any preceding letter , or had had the letterf ; by hypothesis it is not g , the letter contiguous to the ultimate letter h. The conclusion is that a contraction on the ultimate and penultimate letters ( these being non-contiguous ) is reversible if the ultimate is a simple letter , or if , being a power , it is a power of the last letter .
Next let the contraction affect the ultimate and antepenultimate letters .
The two letters are here separated by the penultimate letter , and are therefore not contiguous .
Suppose that the termination is fly"gk ( f and g contiguous ) , the contracted term terminates inf'-I ggj , and ( g , j ) the pair arising from the contraction is the last expansible pair of the contracted term ; the contraction is therefore reversible .
In the example f has been written , but the case 1=1 is not excluded ; moreover the ultimate letter kis taken non-contiguous to the penultimate letter g ; but if the ultimate letter had been the contiguous letter h , the only difference is that the pair would be ( y , g ) , and the conclusion is not altered .
But suppose the termination of the term is e'g'"k ( e , g , non-contiguous ) , then the contracted term terminates in el'-lfg"j , where the pair arislng from the contraction is ( f , j ) , but the last expansible pair is ( g , j ) ; the contraction therefore is not reversible .
The case 1=1 is not excluded ; nor is it necessary that the ultimate letter should be non-contiguous to the penultimate ; if the ultimate letter had been I , the pair arising from the contraction would have been ( f , g ) , but the last expansible pair ( g , g ) , and the contraction is still not reversible .
In each of the cases considered the ultimate has been a simple letter : if in the first case the ultimate had been kP(p &gt; 1 ) , then the contracted pair would terminate in jk"- ' , and ( according as p= 2 orp &lt; 2 ) the last expansible pair would be ( j , ck ) or ( k , k ) , which is not the pair ( y , j ) produced by the contraction ; the contraction is therefore not reversible , unless indeed k is the last letter , in which case it continues reversible .
In the second case the contraction , which is not reversible when the ultimate is the simple letter k , remlsains not reversible wYhen the ultimate is a power of such letter .
The conclusion is that a contraction on the ultimate and antepenultimate letters is reversible , if the penultimateaild antepenultimate letters are contiguous , and the ultimate is a simple letter , or if , being a power , it is a power of the last letter .
A contraction on the ultimate and pro-antepenultimate letters , or on the ultimate letter and any letter preceding the pro-antepenultinmate letter , is never reversible .
To show this , it will be sufficient to consider the case where the term terminates in efgjh , the contracted term terminates inffgg , the pair arising from the contraction being ( f , g ) and the last expansible pair being ( g , g ) ; and a fortiori , if the letters or any of them occur as powers , or are non-contiguous .
Consider , next , a contraction on the penultimate and antepenultimate letters ; this assumes that these letters are non-contiguous .
Such a contraction may be reversible if only the ultimate is the last letter or a power thereof ; and the condition is then similar to that in the case of the ultimate and penultimate letters ; only as the penultimate cannot be a power of the last letter , it must be a simple letter .
And the conditions in order that the contraction may be reversible then are thatthe ultimate is the last letter or a power thereof , and the penultimate a simple letter .
The next case is that of a contraction on the penultimate and pro-antepenultimate letters .
Such contraction may be reversible if the ultimate is the last letter or a power thereof ; and the condition is then similar to that for the case of the ultinlate and antepenultimate letters ; only as the penultimate cannot be a power of the last letter , it must be a simple letter .
The conditions , in order that the contraction may be reversible , are that the ultimate may be the last letter or a power thereof , the penultimate a simple letter , and the antepenultimate and pro-antepenultimate letters contiguous .
A contraction on the penultimate letter and on any letter preceding the pro-antepenultimate letter , or upon any two letters preceding the penultimate letter , is never reversible .
If the ultimate , penultimate , antepenultimate and pro-antepenultimate letters are denoted by U , P , A , P ' respectively , then by what precedes , the following contractions , viz. UP , UA , PA , PP ' , may be reversible , and they will be so under the conditions shown in the annexed Table .
It is to be noticed that the conditions for UA , PA are mutually exclusive , and consequently that the number of reversible contractions to be performed upon any term is at most 3 .
The Table is PA P ' UP U , P , non-contiguous letters .
P , A , contiguous letters .
The ultimate a simple letter , or The ultimate a simple letter , or a power of the last letter .
a power of the last letter .
P , A , non-contiguous letters .
A , P ' , contiguous letters .
Penultimate a simple letter .
Penultimate a simple letter .
Ultimate the last letter , or a Ultimate the last letter , or a power thereof .
power thereof .
The contractions are to be applied in the order UP , UA , PA , PP ' , but all the contracted terms originating in a prior contraction of a given term are to be exhausted before proceeding to a posterior contraction of the same term .
As an example of the process , the set being ( a , b , c , d , e ) , I will take the column abe3 acde2 ad3e b2de2 bcd2e bd4 c'de c2d3 The top term abei is given .
The contractions applicable to it are UP , UA .
And UP gives acde2 .
The only contractio applicable to this is UA , giving ad And there is 42 not any contraction applicable to ad3e .
We revert therefore to UA on abe3 , this gives b2de2 .
The only applicable contraction is PA , giving bc1e2 .
The contractions applicable to this are UP , UA .
And UP gives bcd2e .
The only contraction applicable to this is UA , giving bd4 , and there is not any contraction applicable to bd4 .
We revert therefore to UA on bce , this gives c3de , and the only contraction applicable to this is UA , giving cd3 .
There is not any contraction applicable to this , and the process is therefore complete .
It may be remarked that the example presents no instance of the contraction PP ' ; in fact the only terms having a pro-antepenultimate are acde2 , in which A , P ' are not contiguous letters , and bcd2e , in which the penultimate is not a simple letter , so that the contraction PP ' is in each case excluded .
It must be confessed that a considerable amount of practice would be required before the process could be readily made use of .

