VI .
" Contributions to the History of Methylic Aldehyde .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received September 30 , 1867 .
" The aldehyde of the methyl-series is not known ; " all the chemical manuals say so , and for the last twenty years my students have been duly informed thereof .
It will scarcely appear strange that more efforts to become acquainted with that body should not have been made , since the masterly picture which Liebig has delineated of the aldehyde par excellence embraced as it were the history of the whole class , and of course also of the aldehyde in question .
Nevertheless methylic aldehyde deserves our consideration for more than one reason .
As one of the simplest terms of the monocarbon-series , occupying a position intermediate between marshgas and carbonic acid , as a link of transition connecting methylic alcohol and formic acid , as either aldehyde or acetone , according to the point of view from which we look upon it , the compound CH , O illustrates-a greater variety of relations than any one of the higher aldehydes .
But in addition to the interest with which the methyl-compound has thus always been invested , this substance possesses special claims upon our attention at the present moment .
Our actual method of treating organic chemistry for the purposes of instruction almost involves the necessity of starting from the methyl-series .
The simplest of aldehydes thus acquires quite an especial importance , and all those who , like the author of this note , are engaged in teaching , cannot fail to have sadly missed a compound which is the carrier of such varied and interesting considerations .
The desire which I have frequently felt in my lectures of developing the idea of the genus aldehyde , when speaking of the methyl-compounds , has 156 [ Nov. 21 , more than once induced me to attempt the preparation of methyl-aldehyde , but it was only at the conclusion of my last summer course that I succeeded , to a certain extent at all events , in attaining the object of my wishes .
A substance possessing the composition and the properties of methylic aldehyde is formed with surprising facility if a current of atmospheric air , charged with the vapour of methylic alcohol , be directed upon an incandescent platinum spiral .
The bottom of a strong three-necked bottle , of two litres ' capacity , is covered to the height of about five centimetres with moderately warm methylic alcohol .
The first neck is provided with a tube descending to the very surface of the liquid ; into the second is fixed a loosely-fitting cork , which carries the platinum spiral ; the third one , lastly , communicates with the upper end of a condenser , the lower end of which is fastened into a twonecked receiver .
This receiver is in its turn connected with a series of washbottles , and the last of these communicates with a water-jet aspirator , by which a current of air can be sucked through the whole system .
The apparatus being disposed in this manner , the platinum spiral is heated to redness and introduced into the three-necked bottle .
After a few minutes the flameless combustion of the methyl-alcohol begins to manifest itself by the evolution of a vapour powerfully affecting the nose and eyes .
Gradually the temperature of the apparatus rises , and soon droplets of a colourless liquid are condensed in the receiver .
The formation of methyl-aldehyde is now fairly proceeding , and if the current of air be appropriately adjusted , the platinum spiral remains incandescent for hours and even for days .
There is no difficulty in collecting from 50 to 100 grammes of a liquid rather rich in methyl-aldehyde .
Instead of establishing the current of air by a water-jet aspirator , a pair of bellows may be conveniently employed .
I have often used with advantage the bellows of an ordinary glass-blowing table .
This mode of proceeding is more particularly adapted to the requirements of the lecturer , who is thus enabled , by simply accelerating the movement of the foot , to enliven the combustion , so as to keep the whole spiral in a state of incandescence .
By thus proceeding it happens , however , occasionally that the gaseous mixture in the three-necked bottle is fired ; but these explosions are perfectly harmless , the whole effect being the forcible ejection of the loosely-fitting cork which carries the platinum spiral .
The liquid which is being collected in the receiver has all the properties which theory assigns to the aldehyde of the methyl-series , or , more properly speaking , to its methyl-alcoholic solution .
When rendered slightly alkaline by a few drops of ammonia , and mixed with nitrate of silver , it yields , on gently warming , a silver mirror of irreproachable perfection , which is indeed more readily and more certainly produced than with the aldehyde of the ethyl-series .
The reduction in this case is the result of two consecutive reactions ; in the first stage the aldehyde yields formic acid , which in the second stage is converted into water and carbonic acid .
N2 1867 .
] 157 On heating the methyl-alcoholic solution of the aldehyde with a few drops of a fixed alkali , the liquid becomes turbid on ebullition , acquires a yellowish coloration , and soon deposits droplets of a brownish oil , possessing in the highest degree the peculiar odour of ethyl-aldehyde-resin .
After the observation which I have mentioned , it was scarcely doubtful that the product of the slow combustion of methylic alcohol contained the aldehyde of this alcohol in considerable proportion .
Nevertheless it appeared necessary to fix the nature of this compound by some numbers .
The commencement of the vacations being at hand , there was but little hope of preparing the liquid in sufficient quantity for the purpose of obtaining the aldehyde , which will probably be found to be either gaseous at the common temperature or extremely volatile , in a state of purity for analysis .
Under these circumstances I have been compelled to limit myself to the preparation of an easily accessible derivative of methyl-aldehyde possessing a characteristic composition , and the analysis of which would not be less conclusive than that of the aldehyde itself .
The slight solubility and the powerfully crystalline tendencies of the sulphaldehyde of the ethyl series could not fail to indicate the direction in which I had a right to hope that the object which I was aiming at might be accomplished .
If a current of sulphuretted hydrogen be passed through the methyl-alcoholic solution of methyl-aldehyde , the liquid becomes turbid after a few minutes , and on allowing the saturated solution to stand for some hours , a body of an alliaceous odour begins to be separated at the bottom of the flask .
If the liquid be now mixed with half its volume of concentrated hydrochloric acid , and heated to ebullition , it becomes limpid , and solidifies on cooling into a mass of felted needles of dazzling whiteness .
These needles fuse at 218 ?
; they are volatile without decomposition .
Slightly soluble in water , they are more readily dissolved by alcohol , and still more so by ether .
For the purpose of analysis they were recrystallized from boiling water , in order to exclude free sulphur , with which they might have possibly been contaminated .
The numbers obtained in the analysis of the crystals unmistakeably establish their nature .
The white crystals , as might have been expected , have the composition of the sulphaldehyde of the methyl-series , CH2 S. The analysis of the sulphur-compound fixes , of course , the presence of the corresponding oxygen compound among the products of the slow combustion of methylic alcohol .
A more minute examination of methylic aldehyde and its derivatives remains still to be made .
It will be absolutely necessary to isolate the oxygen-term and to determine its vapour-density , in order to ascertain its molecular weight .
If we remember the facility with which the aldehydes are polimerized , the question presents itself , whether the aldehyde formed by the slow combustion of methylic alcohol is represented by the formula CI , 0 , or a multiple thereof .
A similar remark applies to the sulphur-derivative .
158 [ Nov. 21 , It deserves , moreover , to be mentioned that a compound isomeric with methylic aldehyde , the dioxymethylene ( C2 H4 02 ) of M. Boutlerow , is known already ; also that a sulphur-compound of the formula CH1 S has been obtained by M. Aim Girard , who observed that bisulphide of carbon is reduced by the action of nascent hydrogen with disengagement of sulphuretted hydrogen .
In the course of next winter I propose to perform some further experiments on the product of the slow combustion of methylic alcohol for the purpose , if possible , of isolating methylic aldehyde in a state of purity , and of thus completing this inquiry .

