XV .
' Rlesearches on the Phosphorus-Bases."-No .
XI .
Experimiients in the Methyland in the Methylene-Series .
By A. W.T IOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 24 , 1860 .
In former notes I have repeatedly called attenition to the transformation of the bromide of bromethylated triethylphosphoniurm under the influence of bases .
In continuing the study of these reactions , I was led to the discovery of a very large number of new compounids , the more important ones of which are briefly mentioned in this abstract .
HYBRIDS OF ETHYLENE-DIPHOSPHONIUM .
Action of Trimethyiphosphine upon Bromide of Bromethyl-triethylphosphonium .
These two bodies act upon each other with the greatest eniergy , and moreover exactly in the manner indicated by theory .
The resulting compound was of course examined only so far as was iuecessary to establish the character of the reaction .
The dibromide of the hybrid diphosphonium is more soluble than the hexethylated compound formerly described , which in other respects it resembles .
Oxide of silver eliminates the extremely caustic base C~ H , P O2 [ ( 02 I14 ) 3(C2 , ,C 115)3 P211 " } 0 , 11 30 22 t2IPO [ ( 21)(:)(0 H:)P]t 2 .
) which yields with hvdrochloric acid and dichloride of platinium a pale-yellow platinum-salt , Cl 11 28 P2 1t2 Cl6 [ ( C. I1)t ( 2Pt Gl22 separating in scales from boiling water .
The salts of the hybrid diphosphonium crystallize like those of the hexethylated diphosphonium , but , so far as they have been examined , are somewhat more soluble .
This remark applies especially to the iodide .
It seemed worth while to try whether the bromide of bromethylated triethylphosphonium was capable of fixing a molecule of phosphoretted hydrogen .
It was found , however , that the two bodies do not act upon one another .
Phosphoretted hydrogen gas , passed through the alcoholic solution of the bromide , either cold or boiling , did not seem to affect it in any way .
Action of Timethylpho &amp; phine on Dib6oomide of Ethylene .
This reaction exhibits a repetition of all the phenomnena observed in that which takes place between the dibromide and triethylphosphine .
The process is completed sooner , if possible , than in the ethyl-series .
The lower boiling-point and the overpowering odour of trimethylphosphine render it advisable to mix the materials with considerable quantities of alcohol or ether ; and on account of the extreme oxidability of the phosphorus-compound , it is best to operate in vessels filled with carbonic acid and subsequently sealed before the blowpipe .
After digestion for a slhort time at 1000 , the mixture of the two liquids solidifies to a hard , dazzling , white , crvstalline mass containing the two bromides , CA 113 P Br2 = [ ( C2 11 Br ) ( C II , ) , P ] Br , Ca H22 P2Br2= ( C2 Ht I(C H3)3 p ] ) Br , , one or the other predominating according to the proportions in which the two bodies were allowed to act upon one another .
It was not difficult to establish the nature of these two compounds by numbers .
The solution of the saline mass in absolute alcohol , deposits , on cooling , beautiful prismatic crystals , consisting of the bromide of bromethyl-trimethylphosphonium almost chemically pure , while the diphosphoniium-bromide remains in solution .
The nature of the monophosphonium-compound was fixed by a bromine determination in the bromide , and by the analysis of a platinum-salt beautifully crystallized in needles conitaining C. 113 Br P PtC3 =[(C,2 14 Br)(C H3)3 P ] Cl , PtCl2 .
Treatmenit of this platinum-salt with sulphuretted hydrogen yielded an extremely soluble and deliquescent chloride , which was not analysed , but submitted to the action of oxide of silver , when it furnished the oxide of the corresponding oxethylated compound C6 H1 , P02[(C2 H1 O)(C HA ) P ] } 0 .
The caustic liquid was converted by hydrochloric acid into the easily soluble chloride corresponding to the oxide ; and this chloride , when treated with dichloride of platinum , deposited the platinum .
salt of the oxethylated trimethylphosphonium in well-formed octahedra extremely soluble in water , containing C0 114 P0 PtCl3= [ ( C2 H1 0)(C 113)3 P]C " , PtCl2 .
Salts of iHexmethylated Ethylene-diphosphonium .
Dibromide.-The preparation of this salt has already been mentioned .
It is extremely soluble in water , and even in absolute alcohol , insoluble in ether .
In vacuo over sulphuric acid it solidifies into a mass of acicular crystals , which are exceedingly deliquescent .
The dibromide , treated with oxide of silver , yields the corresponding dioxide , C8 H24 P2 0o ( C2 )(P } which forms with acids a series of salts resembling the corresponding ethyl-compoulnds .
Of these I have prepared only the Di-iodide , which crystallizes in difficultly soluble needles of the composition CB 113 P212= r(C 2 114(C1)3 P3'12 82L2 4 ) ( C 113)3 PJ surpassing in beauty the corresponding ethyl-compound , and thePlatinum-salt.-This is an apparently amorphous precipitate , which is nearly insoluble in water , dissolves with extreme slowness in boiling hydrochloric acid , and separates therefrom on cooling in golden-yellow laminne , very much like those of the platinum-salt of the hybrid ethylene-trimethyl-triethyl-diphosphonium .
It consists ofC8 H22 P2 Pt2 CI , = [ ( C2 H14 ) ( Cl H3)3 P ] C12 , 2PtCl2 .
METHYLE NO GROUP .
Jction of Triethylphosplhine on Di-iodide of Methylenze .
Triethylphosphine and di-iodide of methylene act so powerfully on one another , that it is necessary to moderate the reaction by the presence of a considerable qutantity of ether .
The reaction is very soon completed , even when the mixture is largely diluted , especially if it be heated to 100 ?
in sealed tubes .
The saline residue left after the evaporation of the ether is immediately seem to be a mixture of several compounds , one of which-a sparingly soluble iodide crystallizing in long needles-at once arrests attention .
From analogy we might expect to find in the saline mixture the compounds ( C H2 I ) ( C2 115)3 P]I , or [ ( C 1H2 ) " ( C2 115 ) 1 , P2]"I Experiment has , however , established the presence of the first only .
The difficultly soluble crystals just mentioned are easily purified , being readily soluble in water , sparingly in alcohol , insoluble in ether .
Their solution in boiling alcobol yields splendid needles frequently an inch long , and possessing extraordinary lustre .
Analysis prove this beautiful salt to be the first of the above-mentioned compounds .
The niew iodide behaves with nitrate of silver like the bromide of bromethylated triethylphosphonium ; half the iodine is eliminated in the form of iodide of silver .
It differs , however , from the bromide in its deportment with oxide of silver which , after removal of the accessible iodine , leaves the latent iodine untouched , even after protracted ebullition .
A powerfully alkaline solution is thus obtained containino the base C711-I181I p o=[(C 1121 ) ( C2 115)3 p }o The crystals of the iodide were transformed into the chloride by means of chloride of silver , and the solution was precipitated by dichloride of platirnum .
The precipitate is very sparingly soluble in cold water , but may be recrystallized from a considerable quantity of boiling water .
As the liquid cools , splendid needle-shaped crystals are deposited contain-ing C7 117 IP PtCl3= [ ( C H2 I)(C2 15)3 PIC " , PtCl2 .
The sparingly soluble iodide is present in proportionally small quantity only among the products of the action of di-iodide of methylene on triethylphosphine .
I have in vain endeavoured to detect among these products anything of the nature of a diphosphonium-compound .
On treating the mother-liquor of the sparingly soluble iodide with chloride of silver , and the dilute filtered solution with dichloride of platinum , a few needles of the iodated platinum-salt are still deposited ; but after considerable evaporation the solution yields crystals , all of which exhibit an octahedral habitus .
I was equally unsuccessful in a particular experiment , in which I subjected di-iodide of methylene to the action of a large excess of triethylphosphine ; and a similar report must be made of the attempt to produce the desired body by treating the ready prepared iodide with triethylphosphine , according to the equation [ ( C H2 I)(C2 1-16)3 P]1+ ( C2 H1)3 P= [ ( C I2 ) " ( C2 H5)6IP2 ) f I2 The examination of the mother-liquor of the sparingly soluble iodide is a difficult and thankless proceeding ; nevertheless , by a sufficient number of iodineand platinum-determinations , it may he shown to be a mixture of four differenit compounds .
The mother-liquor is thus found to containi , together with the hydriodate of the phosphorus-base , two crystallizable iodides differing in solubility , and to be separated from one another only by a great number of crvstallizations .
The more soluble salt is the iodide of oxymethylated triethylphosphonium , corresponding to the iodomethylated compound ; the less soluble salt is the iodide of methyl-triethylphosphonium .
The last mother-liquors contain considerable quantities of oxide of triethylphosphine .
Iodide of Oxymethyl-triethylphosphoniumn .
This salt is extremely soluble both in water and in alcohol , even in absolute alcohol , and crystallizes only after the alcohol has been completely evaporated .
The crystals , resembling the frosty efflorescences on a window-pane , contain C7 118 0P 1=[(C H3 0 ) ( C2 H5)3 P]I The iodide , treated with oxide of silver , is converted into the corresponding caustic oxide , which , when mixed with hydrochloric acid and dichloride of platinum , yields a rather easily soluble platinimsalt of any octahedral habituis .
Iodide of Methyl-triethylphosphonium .
The nature of the less soluble iodide was determined by anl iodinedetermination , and by the analysis of the platinium-salt .
The iodide dissolves in water and in alcohol , but is insoluble in ether .
By adding ether to the alcoholic solution , tolerable crystals are obtained .
This compound is most conveniently purified by precipitating the alcoholic mother-liquor , after freeing it by crystallization as far as possible from the iodomethylated iodide , with a quantity of ether insufficient to precipitate the whole , so that the greater part of the iodides may remain in solution .
The iodide thus prepared contailns 07 11S P1 ( C 113 ) ( C2 1H5)3 PI ' .
For further verification of this formula the crystals were deiodized with silver-oxide , and the caustic liquid thus obtained was saturated with hydrochloric acid and precipitated by dichloride of platinum .
The platinum-salt , which crystallizes in beautiful octahedra , was found to contain 07 I 31 rPtCI [ ( C 113 ) ( C2 115)3 P]Cl , PtCI2 .
The two iodides are accompanied by a considerable quantity of oxide of triethylphosphine , which'immediately separates in oily drops on treating the last mother-liquor with potash .
Its presence was likewise unmistakeably recognized by the preparation of the platinumsalt .
If the last mother-liquor of the iodine-compounds be deiodized and mixed with hydrochloric acid and dichloride of platinum , a quantity of octahedral salts separates in the first place , which are removed by sufficient concentration ; the remaining liquid , when mixed with alcohol and ether , yields a crystalline precipitate , which separates from alcohol by spontaneous evaporation in the beautiful large hexagonal tables consisting of the platinum-salt of the oxvchloride of triethylphosphine , which has been more fully described in one of the previous notes on these researches .
The formation of the four compounds contained in the motherliquor of the sparingly soluble iodide is illustrated by the following equations 2[(C2H5)3 P ] + CH20112+H21 = [ ( C2015)3 EP]I+ [ ( COH30)(CA211)YP ] I E@302 H5)3 P ] +C 11212 + 1120 [ ( C21H5)3 11PI P+ [ ( 113 ) ( C031)3 P]1 + ( 023H5)3 PO .

