IX .
" Remarks on a New Class of Alcohols .
" ( Second Note .
) By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and AUGUSTE CAHOURS , F.C.S. Received May 15 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In a communication addressed to the Royal Society some time ago ( Proceedings , vol. viii .
No. 1 9 ) , we endeavoured to delineate the characters of a new alcohol the Allylic alcohol , which is the prototype of a new class of alcohols .
We have since continued these researches in order to complete the history of this remarkable compound .
In submitting to the Royal Society the full account of our experiments upon the subject , we beg leave to mention in this abstract briefly some additional compounds which we have examined since our last communication .
Sulphide of Allyl ( Garlic Oil ) , C12 HIl S2 .
When iodide of allyl is allowed to fall drop by drop into a concentrated alcoholic solution of protosulphide of potassium , a very energetic action ensues , the liquid becomes very hot , and an abundant crystalline deposit takes place of iodide of potassium .
It is important that the iodide of allyl should only be added gradually to avoid spirting , by which a part of the product would be lost .
As soon as the action ceases , the liquid is mixed with a slight excess of sulphide of potassium ; addition of water now separates a light yellowish limpid oil possessing a strong smell of garlic .
When rectified , this liquid becomes colourless , it boils at 140 ?
C. , and gives with nitrate of silver a crystalline precipitate soluble in a boiling mixture of alcohol and water , and separating from this solvent in the form of beautiful white needles , absolutely identical with those which the natural essence of garlic produces .
Sulphide of allyl also comports itself with corrosive sublimate and with bichloride of platinum exactly like the natural garlic oil .
dllyl-Mercaptan , C6 HI S2.-When in the process for the preparation of the preceding compound the protosulphide of potassium is replaced by the hydrosulphate of sulphide of potassium , a volatile product is obtained , having a similar but more ethereal odour .
This substance acts with energy upon protoxide of mercury , with which it forms a compound , dissolving in boiling alcohol , and separating from it on cooling in the form of pearly scales of remarkable brilliancy , which present the greatest resemblance to the mercaptide of mercury .
The liquid obtained in the above-mentioned reaction boils at 90 ?
, and possesses a composition and an aggregate of properties which closely resemble those of the mercaptan of the ethyl-series , being , in fact , the allylic mercaptan , C6 H6 S2 .
Allylamine , C6 17 N.-By boiling cyanate of allyl ( C.8 H5 NO2 ) with a concentrated solution of caustic potassa until the oily layer entirely disappears , a complete decomposition ensues , and the residue contains only a mixture of carbonate of potassium with an excess of the alkaline hydrate ; the volatile products condensed in hydrochloric acid furnish a saline mass which may be obtained crystalline on evaporation .
This substance is always a mixture , the constituents of which vary both in nature and properties .
The action of potassa on it not only separates a base , which is readily soluble in water , but also insoluble basic oils , the boiling-point of which rises to 180 ?
C. Simple distillation of the liberated bases appears to give rise to decompositions , and thus to induce further complication .
We have not succeeded in ascertaining with perfect precision the nature of this mixture , but we have found that it invariably contains a considerable quantity of a base which bears the same relation to allylic alcohol that is observed between ethylamine and ordinary alcohol .
The formation of this substance , which we propose to designate allylamine , CE H7 N , is perfectly analogous to the production of ethylamine by means of cyanate of ethyl .
Diallylamine , C121HllN.-Impure allylamine , obtained by the action of potassa on the cyanate , when digested with a second quantity of iodide of allyl is rapidly changed into a mass of hydriodates of new compounds .
This crystalline mass evidently contains a considerable quantity of the hydriodate of diallylamine , but to succeed in separating it from this very complicated mixture would have required a more considerable quantity of substance than we had at our disposal .
Triallylamine , C1s Hi1 N.-The oxide of tetrallylammonium , to which we shall presently allude , submitted to the action of heat , is decomposed , with liberation of a basic oil .
The perfect analogy of the oxide of tetrallylammonium with the corresponding ethyl-compound , leaves no doubt respecting the nature of this basic substance .
It is obviously triallylamine .
When saturated with hydrochloric acid and mixed with bichloride of platinum , it deposits a yellow platinum-salt , the analysis of which leads to the formula C6 H5 } C6 H5 N , H Cl , Pt C12 .
C6 115 Oxide of Tetrallylammonium , C24 20NO , HO.-The chief product of the action of ammonia upon iodide of allyl is a magnificent crystalline compound , which is deposited from the solution resulting from the reaction .
Iodide of allyl is rapidly attacked even by an aqueous solution of ammonia at the common temperature .
By a few days ' contact a large quantity of the iodide dissolves , and the solution becomes a solid mass .
If no deposition of crystals take place from the solution , it is only necessary to add a concentrated solution of caustic potassa , which causes the separation of an oily layer that speedily solidifies .
The crystals thus formed are the iodide of tetrallylammonium , which , like the corresponding compound of the ethyl-series , is but slightly soluble in solution of potassa .
It is obtained pure by exposing it to the air until the potassa is converted into carbonate , and then recrystallizing it from absolute alcohol .
The iodide , by treatment with oxide of silver , is immediately transformed into the oxide .
This forms an alkaline solution , which possesses all the properties of the oxide of tetrethylammonium .
The iodide contains C6 H15 C6 H r ) C6 3E5 On taking a retrospective glance at the results obtained in this inquiry , it is obvious that propylene , a homologue of olefiant gas , is susceptible of furnishing a mono-acid alcohol , which bears to it the same relation that is observed between methyl-alcohol and marshgas , or between benzoic alcohol and toluol , the analogue of marshgas among the derivatives of the aromatic acids .
The hydrocarbons homologous and analogous to marsh-gas , the homologues of olefiant gas , and indeed probably a very considerable number of other hydrocarbons , may be regarded as starting-points for the production of mono-acid alcohols and of all their derivatives .
All these alcohols are formed by the fixation of two equivalents of oxygen , which oxidation , however , cannot be effected directly , but is accomplished by a series of substitution-processes .
C2 H4 + 02 = C2 114 02 , Marsh-gas .
Methyl-alcohol .
C14 Is+ O2 C14 H8 2 , , Toluol .
B3enzoyl-alcohol .
C66 g+ 2= C6H 02 , Propylene .
Allyl-alcohol .
But olefiant gas and its homologues are capable of furnishing mono-acid alcohols by anlother reaction , which has not yet been applied to the series of bodies homologous to marsh-gas .
In fact , we have learnt by the beautiful researches of M. Berthelot that olefiant gas and its homologues are capable of being transformed into alcohols by the absorption of two equivalents of water ; olefiant gas furnishes by this reaction ordinary alcohol , and propylene , propylic alcohol ; thus~IJ C H1 2HO 1=C4 H6 02 ' Olefiant gas .
Ethylic alcohol .
C6 16 + 2H0 =C H8 02 .
Propylene .
Propylic alcohol .
Olefiant gas , then , and all its homologues are capable of furnishing two mono-acid alcohols , exhibiting slightly different features , but presenting in all their principal characters the most obvious analogy .
The alcohols formed by fixation of water , such as ethylic alcohol , have long been well known ; in fact , the detailed study which has been made during the last quarter of a century of most of their derivatives , has exercised the most beneficial influence upon the development of organic chemistry .
The same remark does not apply to the alcohols produced from these same hydrocarbons by fixation of oxygen .
The history of allylic alcohol , which we have endeavoured to trace in the preceding pages , and to which of late important contributions have been furnished , moreover , by MM .
Berthelot and De Luca and by M. Zinin , begins to throw light also upon this second group of alcohols .
For this reason the discovery of allylic alcohol appears to claim the attention of chemists , even if it had not assisted in fixing , in the system of organic compounds , the exact position of several very interesting natural products , viz. the sulphuretted oils furnished by the bulbs of the garlic ( Allium sativum ) and the seeds of the black mustard ( Sinapis nigra ) , which it had not been possible up to the present time to group around a similar centre .

