277 able to obtain saline compounds with hydrochloric and sulphuric acid .
It forms , however , compounds with nitrate of silver and bichloride of platinum .
The latter has the usual composition , viz. C14 H8 N2 S , , H C1 , Pt C12 .
Boiled with nitrate of silver , the new compound loses its sulphur , which is replaced by oxygen , phenylcarbamide , C14 H N2 2 , being produced , a substance which I described many years ago .
Sulphocyanide of phenyl is acted upon by a great number of ammonias with formation of bodies the composition of which is sufficiently pointed out by theory .
The mode of producing cyanate and sulphocyanide of phenyl , which I have described in the preceding paragraphs , deserves some notice , since the usual processes suggested by the experience in the methyl- , ethyland amyl-series , such as distillation of sulphophenylates with cyanates and sulphocyanides , have altogether failed in producing the desired result .
The same reaction may be of course applied to tolylamine , cumylamine , naphthylamine , and all primary monamines .
IV .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."No .
IV .
Action of Bibromide of Ethylene upon Aniline .
By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 13 , 1858 .
While engaged in some experiments on the action of bibromide of ethylene on ammonia , a short account of which I have lately communicated to the Royal Society , I induced Mr. Henry Bassett , then working in my laboratory , to study the deportment of the same bromide with aniline , a characteristic representative of the class of primary monamines .
In the following pages I propose to submit to the Society Mr. Bassett 's observations , together with the results of a series of experiments which I carried out myself after Mr. Bassett by circumstances had been prevented from a further continuation of the inquiry .
A mixture of 1 volume of the bibromide of ethylene and 2 volumes * Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. ix .
page 150 .
278 of aniline , when exposed to the temperature of boiling water for an hour or two , solidifies into a crystalline mass of more or less solidity .
This mass is chiefly hydrobromate of aniline ; it contains , however , in addition , three new organic bases , partly free , partly in the form of hydrobronmates .
These substances are formed in very different quantities , -a beautiful crystalline body , difficultly soluble in alcohol , being invariably the chief product of the reaction , while the two other bases , the one solid but extremely soluble in alcohol , the other likewise solid but quite insoluble in this liquid , are found to be present in much smaller proportions .
The preparation , in a state of purity , of the principal product of the reaction presents no difficulty .
The solid mass obtained by digesting bibromide of ethylene and aniline in the stated proportions is mixed with water , and submitted to distillation , when any bibromide left unchanged , together with some unaltered aniline , passes over .
The residuary liquid is then mixed with a strong solution of potassa , which separates all the bases existing as hydrobromates in the form of a semi-solid resin .
This is washed with water and then again submitted to distillation with water , when , together with more or less water , an additional quantity of aniline distils .
The residuary mass , when treated with boiling ( methylated ) spirit , leaves the insoluble base as a white , flour-like powder , while the other two bases dissolve .
On cooling , the solution deposits a beautiful crystallization of white needles , while the more soluble base remains dissolved in the spirit .
The crystals are rather difficultly soluble in alcohol ; two or three crystallizations from this solvent render them absolutely pure .
Thus obtained , the new base , for which , in accordance with the results of analysis , I propose the name ethylene-phenylamine , is a snowwhite , inodorous and tasteless crystalline compound , of nacreous lustre , insoluble in water , soluble in boiling , less so in cold alcohol , soluble in ether .
The solutions are without action on vegetable colours .
The substance dissolves readily in hydrochloric , sulphuric and nitric acids , especially on gently heating the liquids , which on cooling deposit well crystallized saline compounds .
The hydrochlorate yields yellow precipitates with bichloride of platinum and terchloride of gold .
When exposed to the action of heat , ethylene-phenylamine fuses at 148 ?
C. ; at a temperature approaching 300 ?
it begins to boil 279 and to distil , the larger portion undergoing decomposition .
Among the products of decomposition which are not yet sufficiently examined , considerable quantities of aniline make their appearance .
The results obtained in the analysis of ethylene-phenylamine lead to the formula C16 H , N as the simplest molecular expression for this compound .
This formula is confirmed by the analysis of the hydrochlorate and of the platinum-salt , the preparation of which , on account of their instability , requires some management .
These salts contain respectively Hydrochlorate ... ..( .
6 N , HCI .
Platinum-salt ... ... ... CH N , HC1 , PtC12 .
The reaction which gives rise to ethylene-phenylamine is expressed by the following equation:2C02 17 N+ C4 H4 Br2 = C2 H17 N , -IBr + C , , I , N , HBr .
-- , ,-- , -_J._ J K_ Phenylamine .
Bibromide Hydrobromate Hydrobromate of of ethylene .
of phenylamine .
ethylene-phenylamine .
What is the constitution of this new base ?
This question could not be answered without further experiments , on account of the twofold nature of bibromide of ethylene .
In many cases this remarkable compound exhibits the character of the hydrobromic ether of a biacid ethylene-alcohol , of ( C4 H4)"Br2 , whilst in the majority of reactions it splits into hydrobromic acid and the bromide C4 H , Br , which might be considered as the hydrobromic ether of a monacid alcohol , C4 H4 02 , homologous to allylic alcohol .
It remained therefore uncertain whether the new basic compound retained the original molecule ( C4 11 ) " replacing 2 equivs. of hydrogen , or the modified molecule C4 H3 replacing 1 equiv. of hydrogen .
In other words , it had to be established by further experiments , whether the base was ( 04 'NCHN , or C4 H113 i C12 H , NN=C , , H , N. The deportment of the substance with iodide of methyl and ethyl , which immediately will be mentioned somewhat more in detail , has 280 decided in favour of the former view , and in accordance with it the name of the substance has been selected .
It deserves to be noticed , that there are already two other bases known which have exactly the same composition , the one obtained by M. Natanson in the reaction of bichloride of ethylene upon aniline , and described by him as acetylaniline , the other discovered by M. Dusart among the derivatives of nitronaphtaline and designated as phtalidine .
It is only necessary superficially to glance at the description of these bodies in order to see that they are essentially different from ethylene-phenylamine .
The constitution of acetylaniline and phtalidine has not been experimentally fixed .
It is probable that Natanson 's base contains the molecule C4 H3 formerly called acetyl , but for which the more appropriate term vinyl has lately been proposed , while phtalidine probably derives from the hydrocarbon styrol or an isomeric body , so that the difference in the constitution of the three bodies would be expressed in the following formulae : Phtalidine C 16H7 Styrylamine ( ?
) l Acetylaniline C4 113 ) Vinyl-phenylamine 12 15 J Ethylene-phenyl(C4 H4 ) amine C12 H5 I have already mentioned that the degree of substitution of ethylene-phenylamine was fixed by the deportment of this base with iodide of methyl and ethyl , bibromide of ethylene exerting no longer any influence upon it , even by protracted contact , at temperatures varying from 100 ?
to 150 ?
C. A mixture of ethylene-phenylamine and iodide of methyl , on the other hand , when exposed for some hours to the temperature of boiling water , solidifies to a resinous mass , floating , togetherwith a portion of unchanged base , in the excess of the iodide .
Distillation with water separates the excess of iodide of methyl ; and washing with cold water until the filtrate is no longer precipitated by an alkali removes anyhydriodate of ethylene-phenylamine formed during the distillation .
Lastly , by repeated crystallization of the resinous residue from boiling water , to which a small quantity of spirit may be added in the later stages ( separation from ethylene-phenylamine ) , a perfectly cry281 stalline , slightly yellowish iodine-compound is obtained , which may be dried without decomposition at 100 ? .
On analysis , this iodine-compound was found to have the remarkable composition C34 1a1 NL _C6 HqN*o i. 34 21 N2 I=C16 I9 , NJ C2 3 I. Treated with oxide of silver , the solution of the iodide yields a powerfully alkaline liquid , possessing all the characters of the class of bodies of which hydrated oxide of tetrethylammonium is the type .
On adding hydrochloric acid and bichloride of platinum , this liquid furnishes a pale yellow amorphous platinum-salt containing C34 H2 N Cl , PtCl 2=C6 H9 NIC H3 Cl , PtCl , .
C16 Ha9 NA repetition of this experiment in the ethyl-series has given perfectly similar results .
On account of the less powerful action of iodide of ethyl , the reaction requires longer digestion .
The iodide formed is less soluble in boiling water than the corresponding methyl-compound , and therefore more difficult to separate from any ethylenephenylamine which may have remained unchanged .
When pure , the new iodide is a yellowish white substance crystallizing in needles .
It fuses in the water-bath without decomposition to a yellow oil , which solidifies on cooling into a brittle crystalline mass .
On analysis , numbers were obtained .
corroborating in every respect the results furnished by the methyl-series .
The iodide contains C3 H23 Ns I-C169 N\ 1 836 EI23 N2 1--c INf C4 EI6 I. Like the methyl-compound , it is readily decomposed by oxide of silver ; and the powerfully alkaline solution yields , with hydrochloric acid and bichloride of platinum , a salt of exactly the same appearance as the salt of the methyl-series .
This platinum-salt was found to contain C36 H3 N2 Cl , PtCl 2-C6 IN } C4 H C , PtC2 -16 H9NC 1 , tC .
The action of iodide of methyl and ethyl upon ethylene-phenylamine , although different from what might have been anticipated , nevertheless appears to fix in an unequivocal manner the state of substitution of this base .
It is obvious that ethylene-phenylamine no longer contains any replaceable hydrogen , and consequently that the 282 molecule ( C4 H4 ) " , equivalent to H2 as such , has been assimilated by the aniline .
But how is the composition of the bodies formed by the action of iodide of methyl and ethyl to be interpreted ?
Are they simply compounds of the alcohol-iodides with 2 equivalents of ethylene-phenylamine , analogous to the salts produced by the union of 1 equiv. iodide of mercury with 2 equivs. of ammonia ?
Does not the existence of these bodies involve a further consideration of the formula which has been assigned to ethylene-phenylamine ?
Does the formula C,0 H9 N actually represent the molecule of this body , or is it not more correct to double that expression and to consider the formula C02 H18 N2 as a more appropriate representation of this molecule ?
Ethylene-phenylamine would then be derived from 2 equivalents of ammonia , it would be a diamine , and the hydrochlorate and the platinum-compounds would appear in the light of diammonium-compounds .
Diethylene-diphenyl-diamine ( C1i H4)2 N. Bichloride ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
( C4 H4 ) N C1 , ( Ci2H5)2 N2 01 .
H2 Platinum-salt ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ( C1 H24)2 ( C12 H15)2 N2 C12 , 2PtCI2 H2 J At the first glance it certainly appears strange that a molecule capable of assimilating 2 equivalents of hydrochloric acid should unite only with 1 equiv. of iodide of methyl or ethyl , well established members of the hydrochloric type .
But this deportment after all is not without parallelism .
The expression C2 1H2 NO , , originally established for quinine by Liebig , supported as it was by the analysis of numerous salts of the formula C20 12 NO2 , IHX , and especially by that of a platinum-compound , C,0 H12 NO2 , HC1 , PtCl , , aq , was universally adopted by chemists .
283 A few quinine-salts of the formula 2(C20 H2 NO , ) , HX were considered as anomalous , as basic compounds ; and it was not until the methylic and ethylic derivatives of quinine , 2C2o,12 NO2 , C2 I 31 and 2C2o 012 NO2 , C4 H I , had been discovered that chemists began to consider the formula C40 H24 N2 4O as a more appropriate expression for the molecule of quinine .
Probably further examination of the salts of ethylene-phenylamine -I retain this name for the present will furnish saline compounds corresponding to the methyland ethyl-derivatives , showing that this base , like quinine , is capable of forming two groups of salts .
It deserves to be noticed that the diammonic nature of ethylenephenylamine is also strongly marked by its deportment under the influence of heat ; for while all the monammonic basic derivatives of aniline are volatile without decomposition , ethylene-phenylamine , when submitted to distillation , is destroyed with reproduction of aniline , like the well-established diamines belonging to this group , melaniline , formyl-diphenylamine , &amp;c. In describing the preparation of ethylene-phenylamine , it has been mentioned that the action of bibromide of ethylene on aniline gives rise at the same time to two other basic compounds .
These substances , which are formed in smaller quantity , differ in a very marked manner from the principal product of the reactions .
Their study is not yet completed , but it may even now be stated , that they have the same composition as ethylene-phenylamine itself .
One of these substances , remarkable for its solubility in spirit , is capable of being converted into ethylene-phenylaxline by a simple molecular change .
The relation in which these three isomeric bodies stand to each other is not yet finally fixed by experiment .
The idea suggests itself that it may possibly be represented by the formulaeSoluble base ... ... ... ... C16 HN .
Ethylene-phenylamine C32 H1 N , .
Insoluble base ... ... ... CG H7 N3 .

