XVI .
" Researches oln the Phosphorus-Bases."-No .
XII .
Relations between the Monoatomie and the Polyatomic Bases .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LLD .
, F.R.S. Received August 17 , 1860 .
In recording my experiments on the derivatives of trietbylphosphine , I have had more than one opportunity of alluding to the energy and precision which characterize the reactions of this compound .
The usefulness of triethylphosphine as an agent of research has more particularly manifested itself in the study of the polyatomic bases , the examination of which , in continuation of former inquiries , was naturally suggested by the beautiful researches on the polyatomic alcohols published during the last few years .
In the commencement these studies were almost exclusively performed with reference to derivatives of ammornia ; but the results obtained in the examination of triethylphosphille have , in a great measure , changed the track originally pursued , and of late I have generally preferred to solve the problems which I had proposed to myself , by the aid of the phosphorus-bases .
The light which the study of these compounds throws upon the nature of the polyatomic bases generally , will be fully appreciated by a retrospective glance at the deport-ment of triethylphosphine Under the influence of dibromide of ethylene , and a comparison of the products formed in this reaction with the results suggested by theory .
A simple consideration shows that the action of diatomic broinides uport bases must give rise to the formation of several classes of compounds .
Let us examine by way of illustration the products which may be expected to be formed in the reaction between ammnonia and dibromide of ethylene .
The diatomic bromide being capable of fixing two molecules of ammoonia , we have in the first place four diatomic bromnides of the formuilr [ ( C2 ll'4 ) ' l6 N2 ] " Br2 [ ( C2 14)2 " 14 N2]T Br .
[ ( 2 14)3 " IT N2 ] " Br2 [ ( ( C2 1)4 " N1 ] " Br2 .
These are , however , by ino means the only salts which , in accordance with our present conception of diatomic compounds , may be formed in this reaction .
Taking into consideration the general deportment of dibromide of ethylene , there could be lno doubt that , under certain conditions , this body would act with ammonia as a monoatomic compound , giving rise to another series of bodies , in which the hydrogen would be more or less replaced by the monoatomic molecule C2 114 Br , viz. [ ( 0C 14 Br ) H3 N ] Br [ ( C2 114 Br)2 H2 N ] Br [ ( C2 11 , Br)3 11 N ] Br [ ( C2I4Br)4 N]Br .
Further , if the reaction took place in the presence of water , it was to be expected that the latent bromine of these salts , wholly or partially eliminated in the form of hydrobromic acid , would be replaced by the molecular residue of water , and thus , independently of any mixed compounds conitaining simultaneously bromine and oxygen , a series of salts might be looked for , in which a molecule C0 4 ( H0)= C2 11 0 would eniter monoatomically .
[ ( 0211,0 ) H3 N ] Br [ ( C2 115 O ) 112 N ] Br [ ( 0C2 H 0)4 N ] Br .
Lastly , remembering , the tendency exhibited by ethylene-compounds to resolve thelmselves in the presence of alkalies into vinylproducts , it appeared not improbable that a fourth series of bodies would likewise be formed , [ ( C2 I-13 ) 113 N ] Br [ ( C2 113)2 11 N ] Br [ ( 02 13)3 I-I N ] Br [ ( 0C2 H3)4 N ] Br .
In the experiments on the actionl of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonlia , which I have already partly publislhed , and which , in a ilmore connlected form , I hope soon to lay before the Royal Society , I have not , indeed , inet with the whole of these compounds ; but in the place of the deficient mnembers of the groups new products have made their appearance , whose formation in the present state of our knowledge could scarcely have been predicted , and thus the problem of disentangling the difficulties of this reaction becomes a task of very considerable difficulty .
Nor did the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ethylamine , diethylamine , and triethylamine , which I subsequently studied , afford a sufficiently simple expression of the transformations suggested by theory .
The difficulties disappeared at once when the experiment was repeated in the phosphorus-series .
In the reaction with dibromide of ethylene , the sharply-defined characters of triethylphosphine exhibited themselves with welcome distinctness , and in consequence more especially of the absence of unreplaced hydrogeln-whereby the formation of a large number of compounds of subordinate theoretical interest was excluded the general character of the reaction , the recognition of which was the object of the inquiry , became at once pereeptible .
I have shown that the action of dibromide of ethylene upon triethylphosphine gives rise to the formation of four different compounds , viz. [ ( C 114 ) ' ( C2 1 ) , P2]"Br2 [ ( C2 14 Br ) ( C2 115)3 P ] Br ( C2 H5 0 ) ( C2 HJ)3 P Br ( C2 3 ) ( C2 115)3 P ] Br , each of which represents one of the four groups of compounds , which under favourable circumstances may arise from the nutual reaction between ammonia and dibromide of ethylene , the production of a greater number of terms being impossible on account of the ternary substitution of triethylphosphine .
Whilst going on with the researches on the phosphorus-bases which I have taken the liberty of submitting to the Royal Society , in notes sketched as I advanced , I have not altog ether lost sight of the experiments in the nitrogen-series , which had originally suggested these inquiries .
Numerous nitrogenated bases , both moloatomic and diatomic , with which I have become acquainted during this investigation , must be reserved for a future communication .
I may here only remark , that these substances , although differing in several points , nevertheless imitate in their general deportment so closely the corresponding terms of the phosphoruis-series , that the P , u picture which I have endeavoured to delilneate of the phosphoruscompounds , illustrates in a great measure the history of the nitrogenbodies .
In conclusion , a few words about the further development of which the experiments on the polyatomic bases appear to be capable , and about the direction in which I propose to pursue the track which they have opened .
Conceived in its simplest form , the transition from the series of monoatomic to that of diatomic bases , may be referred to the introduction of a monochlorinated or a monobrominated alcohol-radical into the type ammonia , the chlorine and bromine thus inserted furnishing the point of attack for a second molecule of ammonia .
If in bromide of ethylammoniium-to pass from the phosphorusseries to the more generally iinteresting nitrogen-series we replace 1 equiv. of the hydrogen in ethyl by bromine , we arrive at bromide of bromethylammonium , which fixing a second equivalent of ammonia , is converted into the dibromide of ethylene-diammonium , the latent bromine becoming accessible to silver-salts .
[ ( C2 H1 Br ) 11 , N ] Br + IJ3 N= [ ( CA 1 , ) " H11 N2 ] " Br2 .
The further elaboration of this reaction indicates two different methods for the conistruction of the polyatomic bases of a higher order .
In the first place , the number of ammonia-molecules , to be incorporated in the new system , may be increased by the gradually advancing bromination of the radical .
By the further bromination of ethyl in bromide of bromethylammonium and the action of ammonia on the bodies thus produced , the following salts may be generated : [ ( C2 1I1 Br2 ) H3 N ] Br+ 2H3 N-[(C2 I-_ ) " I139 N3 ] " ' Br3 [ ( C2 11 Br3 ) 13 N ] Br+ 3113 N =[(C , 1I1 ) " " H12 N4 ] " " Br4 [ ( C2 1-1 Br4 ) 113 N ] Br+4113 N= [ ( C2 H ) " " ' 1113 N , ]"t"'f Br3 [ ( 0:2 Br3 ) H3 N ] Br+ 5JJ1 , N[(Cs )"""f H , , N , ] " BrN .
Again , the fixation of the ammonia-molecules may be attempted , not by the progressive bromination of the ethyl , but by the accumulation of monobrominated ethyl-molecules in the ammonium-niucleus .
The bromide of di-bromethylamlmonium , when submitted to the action of ammonia , would thus yield the tribromide of a triammonium ; the bromide of tri-bromethylammonium , the tetrabromide of a tetrammonium ; and lastly , the bromide of tetrabromethylammonium , the pentabromide of a pentammonium .
[ ( C2 114 Br)2 H2 N ] Br + 2H3N = [ ( C2 H4)2 " H8 NJ Br3 [ ( C2 1 , Br)3 H N ] Br+3H3N=[(C2114)3 " H N ] " " Br , [ ( C2 H14 Br)4 N ] Br+ 41I3N = [ ( C2 4)4 12 NJ ] " Br , .
As yet the bromination of the alcohol-bases presents some diffi .
culty ; appropriately selected reactions , however , will doubtless furnish the several brominated bases .
They may probably be obtained by indirect processes , similar to those by which years ago I succeeded in preparing the chlorinated and brominated derivatives of phenylamine ; or these bodies may be generated by the action of pentachloride or pentabromide of phosphorus upon the oxethylated bases , a process , which , to judge from the few experiments recorded in one of the preceding sketches , promises a rich harvest of results .
I have but a faint hope that I may be able to trace these new paths in the numerous directions which open in a variety at once tempting and perplexing .
Iiiexorable experiment follows but slowly the flight of light-winged theory .
The commencement is nevertheless made , and even now the triammoniumand tetrammoniumcompounds begin to unfold themselves in unexpected variety .
One of the most remarkable compounds belonging to the triammoniumgroup is diethylene triamine , C4 H13 N3(2 114)2 } N3 This base , the fir8t triacid triammonia , forms splendid salts of the formula [ ( C2 114)"2 H8 N3]"1 ' C13 , which will be the subject of a special communication .

