I. " Contributions towards the History of the Monamines."No .
V. Action of Chloracetic Ether on Triethylamine and Triethylphosphine .
" By A. W. HIOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R , S. Received December 16 , 1861 .
I am indebted to Mr. C. E. Groves for a considerable quantity of the ethyl-bases , which he has prepared by the action of ammonia upon iodide of ethyl , in order to test on a large scale the method of separating the three compounds by means of oxalic ether* , which have lately proposed** This circumstance has enabled me to submit these substances , and more especially diethylamine and triethylamine , to a more thorough examination than they had hitherto received .
Reserving a detailed communication upon this subject to a future occasion , I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society a short account of some of the substances observed in the course of these experiments .
Action of GCloraeetic Ethier upon Triethylamine .
A mixture of triethylamine and chloracetic ether , both carefully dried , was exposed in a sealed glass tube for several hours to a temperature of 100 ? .
On cooling , the mixture was found to have deposited some crystals ( chloride of triethylammonium ) , and on opening the tube a small quantityfof a gas , burning with a green-edged flame , escaped .
Repeated experiments showed that these phenomena are due to secondary reactions .
The principal product of the action of chloracetic ether upon triethylamine is the chloride of an ammonium containing in the place of the hydrogen three equivalents of ethyl and one equivalent of a complex atom consisting of the elements which in chloracetic ether are united with the chlorine , ( 2 115IN 0211 X5 } C2 !
2 .
1 ?
= Co 2E N( C1 .
02 MJ JL -(C Aj ( C ] H ) 02 Ji The nature of the reaction was fixed by the analysis of the platinum-salt of this complex metal .
Addition of dichloride of platinum to the aqueous solution of the product of the reaction produces a rather difficultly soluble crystalline precipitate , which by several crystallizations may be obtained in a state of perfect purity , the platinumsalt of triethylammonium , which is exceedingly soluble , remaining in the mother-liquor .
The new platinum-salt crystallizes in splendid , well-formed crystals of rhombic habitus .
They were found to contain C,1 H22NO2Pt C3= [ ( C2 1 , )3 , ( C H2 N ] ci , Pt C12 The chloride corresponding to the platinum-salt is readily obtained by the action upon it of sulphuretted hydrogen .
By evaporation in vacuo over sulphuric acid , it remains in the form of long needles , extremely soluble both in water and alcohol .
From the latter solvent it may be recrystallized .
The crystals , however , owing to their deliquescent character , are but little adapted for analysis .
I have therefore been satisfied to corroborate the formula of the platinumsalt by the examination of the corresponding gold-compound .
The gold-salt crystallizes in needles , which , since they fuse at 100 ?
, have to be dried in vacuo .
Formula : Clo 2 NO2Au Cl-2 [ ( CH)(C 2i 2)N]Cl , Au Cl , .
I have not been able to obtain the base corresponding to this series of salts .
The chloride , when treated with oxide of silver , yields chloride of silver and a solution which , on evaporation , solidifies into a radio-crystalline compound .
Although perfectly neutral to test .
paper , this substance forms , with hydrochloric and hydriodic acids , well-defined salts which belong , however , to another series .
The oiquid obtained by the action of oxide of silver , in addition to the crystalline compound , contains alcohol which may be separated by fractional distillation .
The crystalline substance formed under the above circumstances is rather deliquescent , and was therefore not submitted to analysis .
To obtain some insight into its nature , the platinumand gold-salts , as well as the beautifully crystallized nitrate and iodide , were examined .
Their analysis has proved that these salts differ from the saline compound formed by the action of chloracetic ether upon triethylamine , by the substitution of hydrogen for an equivalent quantity of ethyl , -a difference of composition which might have been inferred from the elimination of alcohol in the process of transformation .
The new set of salts containing only three equivalents of ethyl , I may , for the sake of convenience , designate them as the triethylated compounds in contradistinction to the former class , which are tetrethylated .
The platinum-salt is readily obtained by dissolving the triethylated base in hydrochloric acid , and adding dichloride of platinum .
The precipitate may be crystallized from boiling water without decomposition .
The salt forms beautiful rhombic prisms of the composition C8 I,8 NO2 Pt C13= [ ( C , 15)3(CI2HI2 2)N ] Ci , Pt C12 .
The gold-salt crystallizes in needles difficultly soluble in cold , easily soluble in boiling water , in which they fuse .
Their composition is analogous to that of the platinum-salt , C8 , I1NO , Au Cl4= [ ( 0C H5 ) , ( C2 H 02)N ] Cl , Au C1 .
The nitrate is formed by dissolving the triethylated compound in nitric acid , evaporating the solution to dryness , dissolving the residue in alcohol , and adding ether , when the salt crystallizes out in splendid needles very soluble in water .
The combustion of the compound led to the formula,8 H , , N , 0 , = [ ( C2 H)3 ( C2 1122)]NO3 .
The only additional salt of this series which I have examined is the iodide .
It is formed by dissolving the triethylated compound in hydriodic acid , evaporating , washing the crystalline residue with strong alcohol , and recrystallizing from boiling alcohol .
The crystals are generally well-formed ; they are extremely soluble in water .
The composition of this salt presents some interest .
Analysis proved it to contain C N6,35 N2 = [ ( CA21 ) ( 02 II2 2)NI , C 17 NO2 .
From the analysis of these salts it is evident that the action of oxide of silver upon the compound of triethylamine with chloracetic ether is twofold : in the first place , the chloride is converted into the corresponding base ; in the second place , this base loses an equivalent of ethyl , which separates in the form of alcohol : r'0 c2H2 O2 Ag 0+ 10 ( C2 )3( dN ] +H}+ =AgCl+ L(c .
11 5)2 ' ] jo+ ( C2 ) } Ho. =Agc+ H0 + The crystalline substance which remains after treatment of the tetrethylated chloride with oxide of silver would thus be the monatomic base Hj[ 532(C II)(-I2 122)N ] } There is , however , some reason to believe that the compound is decomposed in the moment of the formation , and that the crystals contain one molecule of water less , being in fact [ C02 12)3 ( C 2 I2 ) 0 } o } 0= ( C , 11 ) , ( C , I o20)N= C , -I , NO , .
The crystalline product has no alkaline reaction whatever ; moreover , we have seen the body C8 I-7 NO2 associated with the iodide in the compound above described .
I lay some stress upon these facts , since they would lend at once an additional interest to the compound under consideration , which would thus appear in the light of triethylated glycocoll , c , H11 NO , = C H2 ( C2 115)3 NO2 .
It deserves to be noticed that normal glycocoll exhibits a tendency to form compounds similar in constitution to the iodide above described , one of the hydrochloric acid compounds being represented by the formula [ C2 H1 N 02 ] C1 + C , ,2 NO , .
The new triethylated compound , whatever its constitution may be , is remarkable for its stability .
Ebullition with the strongest potash is without effect upon it .
I have boiled it with fuming nitric acid for hours without producing any alteration .
A current of nitrous acid passed through the nitric acid solution leaves it unchanged .
Evaporated to dryness , the residue gave , with hydrochloric acid and platinumor gold-solution , the original platinumand gold-salts .
When submitted to the action of heat , the triethylated compound is entirely decomposed .
A powerful alkaline liquid distils , whilst a charred residue remains behind .
The alkaline distillate contains a highly volatile base , forming with hydrochloric acid and dichloride of platinum a rather soluble salt .
I infer from some preliminary platinum-determinations that the base thus obtained is by no means triethylamine .
Further experiments are necessary to clear up the nature of this substance , the examrination of which is likely to throw some light on the constitution of the compound whence it is derived .
Action of Chloracetic Ether upon Triethylphosphine .
The reactions which I have described were also applied to triethylphosphine .
Repetition of all the phenomena previously observed with triethylamine .
Triethylphosphine and chloracetic ether combine with evolution of heat and formation of a brownish liquid of considerable consistency .
If somewhat larger quantities are to be mixed , it is desirable to moderate the action by the presence of a volume of anhydrous ether , equal or greater than the aggregate bulk of the two liquids .
Dissolved in water , separated by filtration or distillation from the excess of chloracetic ether employed , and mixed with dichloride of platinum , the new chloride furnishes a beautifully crystallized platinum-salt , which , after several crystallizations from boiling water , exhibits the composition C1o I22 , PO , Pt CI1= [ ( C02 H ) ( c2 2 ?
P c ] , Pt Cl. Submitted to the action of oxide of silver , the chloride contained in this platinum-salt undergoes the same change which was observed in the corresponding nitrogen compound , [ ( C21 ) .
, ( 11 tI)N]C1 +}0+}0 -[(0 H '1 P^A 11 Itct tn It is scarcely necessary to point out the perfect analogy of the new phosphoretted compounds with the corresponding bodies in the nitrogen-series .
Whatever view be entertained of the latter , must also be taken regarding the former .
Conceived in the anhydrous condition , the product obtained by the action of oxide of silver upon the chloride may be considered as phosphoretted glycocoll with three equivalents of ethyl in the place of three of hydrogen , 8 1117 P02=02 112 ( C2 1,5)3 PO2 The phosphoretted compound resembles in its properties the substance derived from triethylamine .
The aqueous solution , when evaporated in vacuo , solidifies into a radiated crystalline mass .
have been satisfied to fix the composition of this body by the analysis of the well-crystallized platinum-salt , which was found to contain CD H , PO , .
Pt Cl-= [ ( C , H)(C2 )P]C1 , Pt C12 , and by that of the iodide .
The latter was formed by precipitating the platinum-salt by sulphuretted hydrogen , decomposing the chloride formed in this manner by oxide of silver , and dissolving the triethylated compound in hydriodic acid .
The solution was evaporated to dryness , the residue washed with absolute alcohol and recrystallized from the same liquid .
This iodide is more soluble and less beautiful than the corresponding compound in the nitrogen-series .
Analysis showed , however , that it has an analogous composition , viz. C1 H1135 P2 04 I-= [ ( C2 H5)3 ( 2 2)P ] 1,0 C8 H17 P02 .
Whatever view may be taken respecting the composition of the compounds described in the preceding pages , it is obvious that chloracetic ether , in its action on triethylamine and triethylphosphine , exhibits the deportment of one molecule of hydrochloric acid , and that the complex atom , 04H,0 , =0C,2H , ( 0 1 , ) 0 , which in chloracetic ether is united with one equivalent of chlorine , represents in the compounds thus produced one equivalent of hydrogen .
These substances are ammonium-salts of double substitution , the compound atom , which replaces one of the hydrogen equivalents of the ammonium , containing itself an equivalent of ethyl , substituted in this atom for the hydrogen originally present .
Compounds of a similar construction have been previously obtained .
In his beautiful researches on the amidic acids , M. Cahours has proved that the ethers of benzamic , toluylamic , and cuminamic acids exhibit the same tendency to combine with acids which characterizes the amidic acids themselves .
In these ethers the ethyl-atom may be exchanged at pleasure for hydrogen and metals ; it obviously has been introduced into the molecular system of these bodies by what may be called a secondary substitution .
The constitution of the compounds obtained from the first salts by the action of oxide of silver is less transparent .
It may be that there is between these two classes a relation similar to that which obtains between amidic ethers 2 Q and amidic acids .
But they may be , as I have pointed out , interpreted in another way .
The question thus presented is accessible to experiment , being capable of solution in a variety of ways ; and it appears useful to postpone further speculation upon this subject until it may be raised upon a broader experimental foundation .

