V. " Researches on Colouring Matters derived from Coal-tar .
L. On Aniline-yellow .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 29 , 1863 .
In a short paper submitted to the Royal Society in the commencement of last year , I have described a few experiments on the remarkable new colouring matters derived from aniline , which of late have attracted such general attention .
This paper had more particularly reference to anilinecrimson , the industrial production of which , in the hands of Mr. E. Nicholson , has reached so high a degree of perfectionl that the analysis of this compound and of its numerous salts presented no serious difficulty .
But the problem was not solved by establishing the formula of rosaniline and its salts : by far the more important obstacles remained to be conquered ; the molecular constitutioni of rosaniline , on which at that time I had not evenl been able to offer any hypothesis , and the genesis of this well-defined triamine from aniline , had still to be traced .
Since that time considerable progress has been made towards the solution of this problem .
Some of the latest observations which I have had the honour of submitting to the Royal Society will doubtless help to untie this knot .
Nevertheless many doubtful points still remain to be cleared up , and I found it desirable for the better elucidation of the subject to investigate simultaneously several of the other artificial organic colouring matters , in order to trace if possible arnalogies of composition and constitution in these substances , which , it was reasonable to hope , would throw some light upon the principal subject of the inquiry .
The present moment appeared to be particularly appropriate for an investigation of this kind .
The International Exhibition has brought together a collection of these new bodies , such as no other occasion could possibly have assembled in one place and at one time , displaying in a remarkable malner the rapidity with which the industry of our time assimilates and , in many cases , anticipates the results of pure science .
I have commenced the study of a few of the , new colouring matters which several of the distinguished exhibitors of these compounds have placed at my disposal-a study which has beeni greatly facilitated by the zeal and experimental skill of a young chemist , Dr. A. Geyger , who has assisted me in these experiments .
Owing to the number of these substances , and in some cases the dffiiculties of the reactions to be disentangled , some time must elapse before their investigation can be finished , and I therefore beg leave to submit to the Royal Society the results of these researches as they present themselves .
These Notes must necessarily be of a somewhat fragmentary character ; but I hope to collect the results thus gradually accumulating , and to lay them before the Royal Society in more logical order and a more elaborated form .
I begin the account of this series of experiments with the description of a yellow colouring matter which is obtainied as a secondary product in the manufacture of rosaniline .
Chry8aniline.-It is well known that even in the most successful operation , and whatever the process of preparation may be , the rosaniline produced is only a small percentage of the aniline employed .
Together with the crimnson-colour a large proportion of a resinous substance of feebly basic properties is formed , the generally ill-defined characters of which have hitherto baffled all attempts at a thorough investigation , This mixture contains nevertheless several individual compounds , which may be extracted with boiling water , and subsequently separated by treatment with reagents .
Mr. E. C. Nicholson has thus isolated a magnificent yellow colouring matter .
Considerable quantities of this interesting body , Mr. Nicholson with his usual liberality has placed at my disposal , for which my best thanks are due to him .
The yellow colouring matter , for which , on account of the splendid golden-yellow tint it imparts to wool and silk , and in order to record its origin , I propose the name of chrysaniline , presents itself in the form of a finely divided yellow powder , closely resembling freshly precipitated chromate of lead , perfectly uncrystalline , scarcely soluble in water , which it just colours , easily soluble in alcohol and in ether .
This compound is a welldefined organic base , which forms with the acids two series of crystallized saline compounds .
The most characteristic salts of chrysaniline are the nitrates , more especially the mononitrate , which is difficultly soluble in water , and crystallizes with facility .
It was from this compound , purified by half a dozen crystallizations , that I prepared the chrysaniline foranalysis .
An aqueous solution of the pure nitrate decomposed with ammonia yields the chrysaniline in a state of perfect purity .
The analysis of this substance , dried at 1000 , has furnished results which may be translated into the formula C20 H137 N3 .
This expression is corroborated by the examination of several salts , more especially the beautiful compound which this base produces with hydrochloric acid .
Hydrochlorate of Chrysaniline.-Oni adding concentrated hydrochloric acid to a solutioni of chrysaniline in the dilute acid , a scarlet crystalline precipitate is produced , coinsisting of minute scales very soluble in water , less soluble in alcohol , almost insoluble in ether .
These crystals constitute the diacid chloride of chrysaniline , C20 I174 N2 , 2E1C1 .
Under conditions not yet sufficiently defined , this substance is precipitated with water of crystallizationi as c20 1117 N3 , 21I01+1 2 O ?
For analysis these salts were dried at 1000 or 120 ?
, at which temnperature they remain quite unlchaniged .
When heated more stronigly they lose hydrochloric acid .
When the diacid chloride is maintained for a fortnight between 1600 and 180 ?
, the weight of the salt again becomes constant .
The residuary yellow crystalline powder , differing from the original hydrochlorate only by its somewhat diminished solubility in water , was by analysis found to be the pure monacid hydroeblorate of chrysalniline , c 20 1117 N31 1-C 1 .
The crystalline compounds which chrysaniline forms with hydrobromie acid and hydriodic acid are perfectly analogous to the salts produced by hydrochloric acid .
I have not analyzed them .
The nitrates of chry8aniline are the fiinest salts of this base ; these compounds crystallize with the utmost facility in ruby-red needles , which are remarkably insoluble in water .
A dilute solution of nitric acid ( 1 grm. of HNO3 in a litre of water ) , when mixed with moderately dilute solutions of the chloride , yields immediately a crystalline precipitate , so that soluble chrysaniline salts might be used as a test for nitric acid .
For the same reason nitric acid is conveniently employed in separating chrysaniline from the crude liquid obtained by boiling out the secondary products of the manufacture of rosaniline .
Nevertheless the preparation of the nitrates presents uniusual difficulties , and I have lost much time in endeavouring to fix the conditions under which the monacid and the diacid salts may be separately produced .
On boiling an excess of free chrysaniline with dilute nitric acid , a solution is obtained depositing , on cooling , needles which are the mononitrate , C00 1117 N , 31N03 , in a state approaching purity .
On pouring the solution of this salt into cold concentrated nitric acid , a salt is at once precipitated which crystallizes in ruby-red prisms very similar to ferricyalnide of potassium , and constitutes the nearly pure dinitrate , 20 1117 3 ( I-IN03)2 .
But here also analysis exhibits slight discrepanicies , indicating the presence of traces of theformer compouind .
By treatment with water the dinitrate gradually loses its nitric acid , and after two or three crystallizations it is converted into the mononitrate .
The sulphate is very soluble , scarcely crystalline .
The platinum-salt is a splendid scarlet crystalline precipitate , which , from hot and rather dilute solutions containing much free hydrochloric acid , is often deposited in very fine and large plates .
All my attempts to obtain this substance in a state of purity have failed .
The platinum percentages vary with every new preparation , indicating the formation of a monochloroplatinate and a dichloroplatinate , combining with more or less water of crystallization .
The composition of chrysaniline places this substance in immediate juxtaposition with rosanilinie and leucaniline .
These three triamines simply differ by the amount of hydrogen which they contain .
Chrysaniiline. .
C20 17 N3 Rosaniliie ... .
C.20 I-Jo19 N3 Loucaniline.020 " 21 N3 .
Chrysanilline is monacid or diacid ; rosaniline monacid or triacid , but with essentially monacid predilections ; leucaniline forms exclusively triatomic compounds .
The formula of chrysaniline suggests the possibility of transforming this substance into rosaniline and leucaniline , or of producing chrysaniline from rosanililne or leucaniiline .
Up to the present moment this transformationi bas not been experimiientally accomplished .
The constitution and genesis of chrysaniline remaini to be made out .

