I. " Transformationi of the Aromatic Monamines into Acids richer in Carbon.-II .
On Menaplithoxylic Acid , the Naphthalineterm correspondingo to Benzoic Acid .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received Marchl 4 , 1868 .
In a paper communicated to the PRoyal Society* about a year ago , I pcinted out the existence of an acid holding to lnaphthaline the same relations which obtain between benzoic acid and the hydrocarbon benzole .
I have since prepared this compound on a somewhat larger scale , and I beg now to submit to the Royal Society some of the results which I have obtained in its examination .
The material used in preparing the new acid is naphthytlanine , the mon* Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xv .
p. 335 .
amine of the naphthyl series .
This substance , preseniting an exclusively scientific interest but a few years ago , is now produced on an industrial scale .
It is more especially a beautifully crystallized yellow colouringmatter ( Manchestery ellow ) , the dinitronaphthylic acid , discovered and first employed as a dye by Dr. Martius , which is largely manufactured from naphthylamine .
The base occurring in commerce is far from being pure .
It is generally met with as a brown fused mass , containing more or less resinous matter and , more particularly , a considerable amount of naphthaline .
The purification of the commercial product presents some difficulties ; still tolerable crystals may be obtained by crystallization from petroleum .
For the object I had in view it was unnecessary to purify the naphthylanmine of commerce .
The base was mixed with powdered oxalic acid in such proportions as to produce the primary oxalate with an excess of free oxalic acid .
Four parts of naphthylamine and five parts of crystallized oxalic acid were found to yield very satisfactory results .
The operation had to be performed upon rather a large scale .
After some trials , a cyanide-ofpotassium pot , provided with a cover and bent tube , proved to be the most convenient apparatus for distilling the mixture .
At the commencement of the operation water and naphthaline were evolved ; soon , however , an oily liquid appeared , solidifying on cooling , and consisting , of a mixture of naphthylformamide , naphthyloxamide , oxalate of naphthylamine , naphthylamine , and naphthaline .
This distillate was transferred to one of the large twonecked stolie-ware bottles which are used for condensing nitric acid , mixed with concentrated hydrochloric acid , and submitted to the action of a powerful current of steam , care being taken to condense the steam by a spiral surrounded with water .
Together with the water large quantities of a darkbrown , almost opaque oil , heavier than water , were thus obtained .
For this oil , which a more minute examination proved to be the compound I was endeavouring to prepare , I propose , in accordance with its composition , the name of cyanide of naphthyl .
It still contained appreciable quantities of naphthaline .
In the main , however , the reaction had taken place exactly in the same manner as in the case of aniline and toluidine , the deportment of which I have described in my previous paper* .
In the first place , the primary oxalate of naphthylamine had been converted into naphtylformamide , ( C )'22 +f ( io~ 117 ] 0 1101 H2 2H0N= C0O0H7 N+ H20 + C02 , which , losing one molecule of water , had in the second stage of the operation furnished cyanide of naphthyl , CHO CIO 117 N= CIOH7CN +H 20 .
I The purification of the crude product preselnted no difficulty .
The oil was separated from the water by ether , and , after the ether ha(d been evaporated , submitted to distillation .
Between 218 ?
and 220( the therrniometer became stationary ; the fraction distilling at that temperature solidified on cooling , and exhibited the boiling-point , fusing-point , and the other properties of naphthaline .
The thermometer then rose rapidly to 2900 , and the whole liquid had distilled before the thermometer reached 3000 .
The liquid distilling between 290 ?
and 300 ?
was of a light-yellow colour , and of a peculiar aromatic odour ; after standing for twenty-four hours in a cold room , it likewise solidified to a crystalline mass .
Oni immersion in a frigorific mixture , solidification immnediately took place ; once solidified , the compound no loniger liquefied at the ordinary temperature .
The new compound thus obtained is easily soluble in alcohol ; the crystals which on evaporation separate from this soluition are absolutely pure .
Oni adding water to the alcoholic solution the body separates as an oil , which after a few momenits solidifies to a confused mass of crystals .
These crystals fuse at 3305 ; fused and resolidified , the substance is heavier than water ; its boiling-point is 296 ? ?
5 ( corr .
) .
The new compound represents in the naphthyl-series the benzonitrile in the benzoic series .
Its composition , as has already been pointed out in the equation exhibiting its formation , is represented by the formula C , l H7 N. On dissolving the nitrile in an alcoholic solution of soda , comparatively little ammoniia is disengaged ; but addition of water to the solution shows at once that the nitrile has undergone transformation .
The crystals which are precipitated are far less fusible and soluble than the nitrile .
By one or two recrystallizations from boiling alcohol they are obtained in a state of perfect purity .
Thus prepared they are fine white iieedles , fusing at 2440 ( corr .
) , and subliming at a high temperature .
Analysis has proved these crystals to have the composition C1l H1 NO = C1l 117 N+ i120 , thus showing that they are the amide corresponding to the nitrile , from which they are derived by the accession of 1 molecule of water .
I have mentioned that the transformation of the nitrile into the amide is attended by an evolution of ammonia .
This evolution is obviously due to the further change of the amide .
Assimilating a second molecule of water , this substanice gives rise to the formation of an ammoniumsalt , C02 119NO + H12 == Cil HI N0 2= C0l H7 ( 114 N ) 02 , which in its tuirn is converted into the sodium compound with evolution of ammonia .
Indeed , on adding hydrochloric acid to the alkaline solution , an abundant precipitate of a beautifully crystalline acid is obtained , the properties of which strongly resemble those of benzoic acid .
It is scarcely necessary to state that the difficultly soluble amide , when submitted to the protracted action of boiling soda , is ultimately entirely converted into the new acid .
Of the three substances mentioned , the acid is by far the most interesting , forming as it does the starting-point of a new group of compounds , the number and variety of which can scarcely be inferior to that of benzoic acid .
It thus became desirable to prepare the acid on a larger scale .
For this purpose it was not necessary to employ the nitrile or the amide in a state of perfect purity .
The crude nitrile had simply to be boiled for some time with alcoholic soda , care being taken to conidense the vapours , so as not to lose any nitrile by evaporation .
When ammonia was no longer evolved the alcohol was boiled off , and the alkalilne liquid filtered after cooling , whereby small quantities of naphthylamine were separated .
The brown liquid , when decomposed by hydrochloric acid , furnished an abundant curdy precipitate , consisting of the new acid .
It was washed with cold water and recrystallized partly from boiling water ( in which it is very sparingly soluble ) , partly from hot alcohol ( by which it is copiously dissolved ) .
Thus purified , the new acid presents itself in the form of white needles , which fuse at 1600 C. Fused and resolidified , the new compound is heavier than water .
When heated beyond its fusing-point the new acid sublimes .
The boiling-point is considerably above 300 ? .
The acid is nearly inodorous and tasteless ; when heated it feebly evolves the odour of naphthaline ; its vapour , like that of benzoic acid , irritates the respiratory organs .
The solutions of this acid have a distinct action upon litmus-paper , and decompose with facility ( more especially on heating ) the alkaline carbonates .
In accordance with a principle of nomenclature which I proposed some time ago , I will designate the new acid by the name menaphthoxylic or naphthaline-carboxylic acid .
In this case the amide receives the name menaphthoxylamide , the nitrile that of menaphthenylnitrile .
I may be permitted briefly to mention some of the observations which , in studying the new compound , I have already been able to collect .
It has been stated that the nitrile fixes water with facility .
It could not be doubtful that in like mannier it would also combine with sulphuretted hydrogen .
Indeed , when dissolved in alcoholic sulphide of ammonium , and exposed for some hours to a temperature of 100 ?
, the nitrile absorbs one molecule of hydrosulphuric acid , being converted into a beautifully crystalline body , easily soluble in alcohol , which fuses at 126 ?
, and has the composition C01119NS =C 1117N + H12S .
This substance is menaphthosulphylamide , corresponding to thiobenzamide , the sulphuretted derivative of benzonitrile discovered by M. Cahours .
I have examined menaphthoxylic acid somiewhat in detail .
Like benzoic acid , to which it has a strongly marked family resemiblance , it is a monobasic acid .
The silver-salt is a white , scarcely crystalline precipitate , nearly insoluble in water , which is obtained when the ammonium-salt is decomposed by nitrate of silver .
Its composition is Cil H7 Ag O.2 The bariumand calcium-salts are crystalline compounds , difficultly soluble in water , easily obtained by double decomposition , and purified by crystallization from boiling water .
The barium-salt forms white needles which , when dried in vacuo , exhibit the composition C11 H7 Ba"0 ?
2 }+ 4 H2 0 .
At 1100 the salt loses its water .
The calcium-salt also crystallizes in needles .
The analysis of the vacuumdry salt led to the formula c11 1T7 Car ' 02 +2 H2 0 .
At 1 100 the salt becomes anhydrous .
The copper-salt and the lead-salt are respectively green and white precipitates .
Highly characteristic is the deportment of the acid when it is submitted to the action of caustic baryta .
Faithful to the traditions of benzoic acid , menaphthoxylic acid splits into carbonic acid and naphthaline , C0 11802 = CHS + CO2 .
The naphthaline thus obtained possesses the fusing-point , and the properties in general of the hydrocarbon formed in the distillation of coal .
Menaphthoxalate of calcium , when submitted to the action of heat , yields an aromatic distillate which gradually solidifies to a crystalline mass , probably the ketone of the series .
Nitric acid gives rise to the formation of a beautiful nitro-acid ; when boiled with very concentrated acid , menaphthoxylic acid is transformed into a difficultly soluble crystalline compound which is no louger acid .
Some experimenits on the chloride corresponding to the acid , and some of the derivatives of the chloride , may still be briefly here recorded .
On mixing four parts of menaphthoxylic acid ( fused and powdered after solidification ) with five parts of pentachloride of phosphorus , the two compounds begin to act upon each other at the common temperature .
The mixture becomes liquid , and disengages , when gently heated , abundant quantities of hydrochloric acid and oxychloride of phosphorus .
The boiling-point of the liquid rapidly rises to 3000 What distils between 296 ?
and 298 ?
is the pure chloride of menaphthoxylic acid , the boiling-point of which is pretty accurately 297 ? ?
5 .
Menaphthoxylic chloride is a liquid at the common , a solid at low temperature ; it has the composition Cl , H7 0 CI , and exhibits the deportment of the aromatic chlorides in general .
When exposed to the atmosphere it absorbs moisture , being gradually transformed into menaphthoxylic and hydrochloric acids .
Addition of water produces this effect instantaneously .
In contactwith ammonia the chloride is converted into menaphthoxylamide , with all the properties of the compound genierated by the action of alcoholic soda upon the nitrile .
The action of aniline upon the chloride gives rise to the formation of menaphthoxylphenylamide , Cil 11 7O C171113 = 06 1 N. HJ white crystals , insoluble in water , readily soluble in alcohol , easily purified by crystallization .
Their fusing-point is 160 ? .
When aniline is replaced by naphthylamine , the corresponding naphthylated compound , nzenaphtkoxylnaphthylamide , is produced , C111170 ] C21 H115 NO= C10 7 N , crystalline powder , insoluble in water and benzole , difficultly soluble in alcohol .
It fuises at 244 ' ( corr .
) .
On treating menaphthoxvlic chloride with absolute alcohol , the ethylether of menaphthoxylic acid is formed , 013 112 2 -flH7O }O , aromatic liquid , insoluble in water , boiling at 309 ?
( corr .
) .
I have also prepared the anhydride of menaphthoxylic acid by submitting , according to Gerhardt 's method , the chloride to the action of a menaphthoxylate .
For this purpose the calcium-salt , dried at 1100 , was mixed with an equivalent quantity of the chloride , and maintained for some time at 1400 ; it is insoluble in water , difficultly soluble in alcohol , and easily soluble in ether and beuzol .
In conclusion , I beg to express my thanks to Mr. Cornelius O'Sullivan for the zealous assistance which he has given me in performing these experiments .
Since in my first communication to the Royal Society I pointed out the existence of menaphthoxylic acid , this substance has been produced by another reaction which appears to be more advantageous than the process described in the preceding paper .
By distilling a sulpbonaphthylate with cyanide of potassium , M. V. lIerz* has obtained an oil possessing the composition and the properties of the cyanide of naphthyl as obtained by treating naphthylamine with oxalic acid , 017KSO0 + KCN = K2503 ? ?
17 C N. As far as I can judge from the statements published by M. Merz , I con* Zeitschrift fiir Chemie , 1868 , p. 133 .
cider the two substances identical .
Treated with hydrate of potassium , this nitrile is converted into an acid which M. Merz describes under the name of naphthaline-carboxylic acid .
The opinion expressed by this chemist , that his acid might be identical with the one observed by myself , I am inclined to adopt , although there are still some few discrepancies in our observations to be elucidated .
M. Merz states that the fusing-point of his acid is at 140 ?
, whilst the acid examined by inyself fuises at 1600 .
In order to remove , if possible , this discrepancy , I have , since I saw Mi .
Merz 's paper , again and repeatedly taken the fusing-point of menaphthoxylic acid , but always with the same result .
Possibly the fusingpoint of the acid prepared by means of a sulphonaphthylate may be found somewhat higher when the compound is carefully purified by repeated crystallization from alcohol .

