XI .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
X. On Sulphamidobenzainine , a new base ; and some Remarks upfon Ureas and so-called Ureas .
By Ak .
W. HOFMIANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 24 , 1860 .
Among the numerous compounds capable of the metamorphosis involved in Zinin 's beautiful reaction , the nitriles have hitherto escaped the attention of chemists .
This is the more remarkable , since some of these bodies are easily converted into crystalline nitro-compounds .
When examining several of the diamines which I have lately submitted to the Royal Society* , I was induced to study the transformation which benzonitrile undergoes under the successive influence of nitric acid and reducing agents .
Benlzonitrile , when treated with a mixture of sulphuric and fuming nitric acid , furnishes , as is well known , a solid nitro-suLbstitute which crystallizes from alcohol in beautiful white nieedles , containing C7 114 N2 02=C7 ( 114 , NO ) Nt .
In order to obtain this body , it is desirable to perform the operationi with small quantities , and to cool the liquid carefully , otherwise the formation of appreciable proportions of nitrobenzoic acid can scarcely be avoided .
The nitro-compound is readily attacked by an aqueouis soluition of sulphide of amnmonium ; sulphur is abundantly precipitated , and on evaporating the liquid , a yellowish red oil is separated , which gradually and imperfectly solidifies .
This substance possesses the characters of a weak base , dissolving with facility in acids , and being again precipitated by the addition of ammoniia and the alkalies .
The preparation in the state of purity , both of the base itself and of its compounds , presents some difficulty .
This circumstance has prevented me from analysing the base .
I have , however , examined cne of its products of decomposition , which leaves no doubt that nitrobenzonitrile , under the influence of reducing agenlts , undergoes the vell-known transformation of initro-compounds , and that the coniposition of the oily base is representedI by the formula C7 16 N2= C7 1-14 ( Nil2 ) N. The oily base , when left in contact with sulphide of ammonium , is gradually changed , a crystalline compound being forined , which is easily soluble in alcohol and in ether , but difficultly soluble in water , and which may be purified by several crystallizations from boiling water , bei-ng deposited on cooling in white brilliant needles .
This compoiund is a well-defined organic base ; it dissolves with facility in acids , and is precipitated from these solutions by the addition of potassa or of ammonia .
With hydrochloric acid it forms a crystallizable salt , which yields , with dichloride of platinum , an orangeyellow crystalline precipitate .
On analysis , the new base was found to have the composition c7118 N2 S , explaining its formation , in which evidently two phases have to be distinguished : ( 1 ) C7 ( 4 NO2 ) N+3H2 S=21120+3S+C7 H6 2 ( 2 ) C7 H6 N2+H2 S=07 H8 N2 S. The new sulphuretted base has the same composition as sulphocarbonyl-phenyldiamide , a feebly basic compound which I obtained some time ago by the action of ammonia on sulphocyanide of phenyl* .
071H2NS+H1N=C7118N S. phenylte C7 56i 3 N-7 828A superficial comparison of the properties of the two bodies shows , however , that they are only isomeric , the constitution of the latter compound being represented by the expression ( CS ) ( C6 5][ ) ' N2 , , H3J whilst the constitution of the former may be expressed by the formula 7 ( 11412 N ) S ( C7 14 S)y ) XH N= H2 N2 ' HJ1 12 J The new sulphuretted base is closely connected with an interesting compound which Chancel obtained some years ago , when he submitted nitrobenzamide to the action of reducing agenits .
The crystalline base produced in this reactioni contains C7 118 N2 0 , and differs from the body which forms the subject of this note only by having oxygen in the place of sulphur .
The formation of this oxygenated compound has given rise to some misconceptions , which I take this opportunity to elucidate .
A short time before the discovery of the body in question , I had obtained a compound of exactly the same composition by the action of the vapour of cyanic acid upon aniline , C , H7N+CHNlO-=C7H .
N2 0 .
The myiode of producing this substance pointed it out as an ana* Proceedings , vol. ix .
p. 276 .
logue of urea , and hence the designation aniline-urea , under which I described the new body as the first of the group of compound ureas , which has since been so remarkably enriched by Wurtz and several other chemists .
The aniline-urea , or phenyl-urea as it is more appropriately called , differs from ordinary urea in its deportment with acids , being , in fact , no longer capable of producing saline compounds .
The absence of basic properties in the new phenyl-compound was sufficient to throw some doubt upon its ureic character , and this doubt appeared to receive additional support by Chancel 's subsequent discovery of a compound possessing not only the composition of pheniyl-urea , but forming likewise well-defined saline combinations .
This compound is , however , the amide of amidobenzoic acid , its constitution being interpreted by Chancel , in accordance with its formation : C7 H15 0 Benzamide H1 N. C7 ( 114 NO2 ) 0 Nitrobenzamide H } N. 13 J C7 , ( 114 Nil2 ) 0 Amidobenzamide H N. Nevertheless chemists , by silent but genieral consent , begaan to look upon this compouncl as the true phenyl-urea ; and in most manuals , even Gerhardt 's ' Traite de Chimie ' not excepted , it figures under this appellation .
Let us see how far this view is supported by the deportment of this substance .
Compound ureas , as I conceive the character of this class , must imitate the deportment of urea par excellence , both in their mode of formation and their products of decomposition .
Urea is formed whenever cyanic acid or cyanates come in contact with ammonia or ammoniacal salts .
These are precisely the conditions unider which the substance which I have described as phenyl-urea is generated .
This compound is obtained by the union of cyanic acid with phenylamine , or of ammonia with cyanate of phenyl .
H N+ ( CO ) N=-(C 11,5 ) N I((JO ) H } N+ ( C , sI-I N=(C6G 1105 ) N2 .
On the other hanld , no cyanogen-compound is involved in .
the formation of amidobenzamide , or amidobenzamine , as it might be more appropriately called , on account of its basic properties .
Not less decisive is the evidence fuirnished by the products of decomposition of the two bodies .
The most characteristic transformation of urea is its decomposition inito ammonia and carbonic acid when it is submitted to the action of the alkalies .
A compound urea thus treated should yield , together with carbonic acid and ammoniia , the monamniuie from which it has arisen .
Phenyl-urea should furnish carbonic acid , am-moniia , and phenylamiiie : these are precisely the products observed in the decomposition of the compound which is formed by the action of cyanic acid on phenylami-ne .
( CO ) ) 'H C , HIL- , ( : , R N2 + 0=(CO)"O+IHi } Nl -N .
113 JI 11 Amidobenzamine , on the other hand , exhibits with potassa the deportmenit of an amidated amide .
The reaction presents two distinct phases , ammonia and amidobenzoic acid being formed in the first phase , and ammonia and .
benzoic acid in the second : I N } H E } o=1 } N+ ?
C(HI 4N)O}O c ( 11112N } O ?
+ 11 ?
I } 41+ C7 115 O } 0 .
No trace of carbonic acid and no trace of phenylamine are elimiminated by potassa .
It is only by fusing with soda-lime that a perfect destruction of the compound ensues , when , as Chancel has distinetly observed , in the first place ammonia , and ultimately carbonic acid and phenylamine are evolved .
What I have said respecting phenyl-urea applies with equal force to diphenyl-urea .
Gerhardt describes as diphenyl-nrea the compound obtained by Laurent and Chancel when they examinied the action of reducing agenits upon nitrobenzoplhenone , and which , oi account of its yellow colour , was originally described as fjavine .
'this body contains C , , H11 N , O , which is certainly the formula of diphenyl-urea .
But here again chen-ists have beeii misled by the basic properties of the substanice , It is not my object at present to dwell on the constitution of flavine , which I intend to examine in a subsequent note ; suffice it to say that this sutlbstanice is not diphenyl-urca .
The true diphenyl-urca is the substance commonly called carbanilide , or carbophenylamide .
( CO ) " C13 H 12N2 0=((C6 11-5)2 &gt; N2 .
112 J Both the conditions under which this body forms , and the products into which it is decomposed , leave no doubt regarding its position in the system .
This compound is formed by the action of cyaniate of phenyl upon either water or phenylamine .
i(t ) 10 ( CO)"0(C H ) 2 L(Co1 ) ) ( 0+ 0 ) " ( CO ) O+ ( C H- ) N LA HO H6a ~~~12 91 ( C0)"i C6 H59 ( CO ) i ( Cc H } N+ 11 fN=(C6 I-IH)2 -N2 .
119 H2 9 When boiled with potassa , it splits into carbonic acid and pheniylaminle .
( CO ) " C6 E-5 ( C6 15)2 JN2 +0= ( CO)"o +2 1-1 N ) .
These are the charactcrs of true diphenyl-urca .

