III .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
XIX .
Aromatic Diamines .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R , S. Received December 16 , 1861 .
Whilst engaged in the examination of the polyatomic ammonias of the ethylene-series , I have repeatedly endeavoured to produce the diatomic bases corresponding to the aromatic monamines .
The composition and general characters of these compounds were sufficiently indicated by the examination of ethylene-diamine .
The simple relation which the latter body bears to ethylamine , C2 H , ( C2 Hl4 ) ' Ethylamine IH N , Ethylene-diamine H2 N2 , 12 J could leave no doubt regarding the existence of a series of diatomic aromatic ammonias similarly related to aniline and its homologues .
* Pogg .
Ann. lxxxvi 214 .
t Phil. Trans. 1858 , p. 586 .
+ Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys. ( 3 ) xxxix .
355 .
The second column of the following Table sets forth the series of substances thus theoretically suggested : Phenylamine C6 H5 ( Aniline ) j jf Tolylamine C7 71 HI N , ( Toluidine ) IE JN Xylylamine C8 19 } ( Xylidine ) IL N , II N , ( C , 114)"V Phenylene-diamine H2 N2 , H , ( C7 11)"1 Toluylene-diamine H1 , N , I29 J Xylylene-diamine ( C8 , II " H , I-IX IN , .
The method for producing these diatomic compounds appeared likewise obvious .
Bearing in mind the simple transformation of benzol into nitrobenzol and aniline , C6 He CH N 0 , C6 EH1 2N Benzol .
Nitrobenzol .
Phenylamine .
the idea very naturally suggested itself , to look to dinitrobenzol as the source from which phenylene-diamine might reasonably be expected to arise .
C , H6 C , H14N 02 C6 H1 H4 NN O2 1 , N Benzol .
Dinitrobenzol .
Phenylene-diamine .
Nor have chemists failed to pursue the path pointed out by theory .
In conjunction with Dr. Muspratt I have myself , many years ago , examined this reaction .
We did not , however , succeed in producing the desired result , although our exertions were rewarded by the discovery of nitrophenylamine ( nitraniline ) , C0 Ho C , , N2O C H , N O , 66 4-1 -2 6 _XTf_4TT X Benzol .
IN U2 Dinitrobenzol , 112 N Nitrophenylatnine .
which , being the first basic nitro-compound with which chemists became acquainted , withdrew our attention for the time from the original object of the inquiry .
Nitrophenylamine being obviously the first product of the action of reducing agents on dinitrobenzol , it appeared very probable that the further reduction of the nitro-base or the prolonged treatment of dinitrobenzol itself might furnish the compound .
I have repeatedly tried to accomplish the final reduction of nitrophenylamine by the protracted action of sulphide of ammonium or potassium , without , however , obtaining definite results .
Nor have Messrs. Church and Perkin , who have examined the action of nascent hydrogen upon dinitrobenzol , been more successful .
Their experiments have led them to the discovery of an interesting new compound , nitrosophenyline ; but the formation of a diatomic ammonia was not observed .
M. Zinin , on the other hand , to whom science is indebted for the important discovery of the reduction of nitro-compounds , has been more fortunate : by exhausting the action of sulphide of ammonium upon dinitrobenzol , this chemist has in fact obtained a substance to which he attributed the formula set forth for phenylene-diamine .
The properties of the body described by Zinin under the name of semibenzidam , are , however , far from those which might have been anticipated in the case of such a compound .
Distillation of an alcoholic solution of dinitrobenzol with sulphide of ammonium , according to Zinin ( Gerhardt , Traite , vol. iii .
p. 104 ) , leaves a brown resinous substance , soluble in water and containing much free sulphur .
By dissolving it in boiling alcohol or ether , the compound is deposited , on cooling , in yellow flakes , melting under water to a brown resinous mass , which , on exposure to the atmosphere , rapidly assumes a green colour .
This certainly is not the phenylene-diamine of our theoretical conceptions ; and more than a year ago , when submitting to the Society some experiments on the action of nitrous acid upon nitrophenylene-diamine* , I was led to express this opinion:--"Those chemists who have had an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the well-defined properties of ethylene-diamine , will not be easily persuaded to consider the uncouth dinitrobenzol-productsometimes appearing in brown flakes , sometimes as a yellow resin , rapidly turning green in contact with the air-as standing to smooth phenylamine in a relation similar to that which obtains between ethylene-diamine and ethylamine .
" I have in no way to retract the opinion then expressed .
The diatomic ammonia of the phenyl-series has obviously never been observed in a pure state .
Phenylenediamine and the homologous diatomic aromatic bases are as welldefined substances as their collateral monamines .
This class of bodies is , in fact , characterized by an extraordinary crystallizing power , -both the bases and their salts being easily obtained in crystals , which are often capable of measurement .
It was under peculiar circumstances that my attention was drawn again to the study of the aromatic diamines .
I am indebted to Dr. Alphons Oppenheim for the communication of a specimen of a crystallized base , which had been obtained as a secondary product in the Aniline Works of M. Ch. Collin of Paris .
The first combustions proved to me that this substance was one of the diatomic compounds which I had repeatedly endeavoured to produce .
The crystals were found to contain ( C07 C7 H , o N2 H , N2 , H , which is the formula of toluylene-diamine , the primary diamine of the toluyl-series .
The intimate relation of this compound with the ethylene-bases , which I have lately studied , induced me to pursue the subject further .
M. Ch. Collin has had the kindness to furnish me with a most liberal supply of this interesting substance , accompanied by a very lucid and elaborate statement of the circumstances under which it is produced , drawn up by Dr. Coblentz , the chemical director of the factory .
I have thus been enabled to verify the formula above given by the analysis of several salts .
There could be no doubt about the reaction which , in the manufacturing processes of M. Collin , had given rise to the formation of this substance .
It obviously owed its origin to dinitrotoluol accidentally produced from the toluol invariably present in commercial benzol .
Experiments have not failed to verify this view .
Dinitrotoluol , prepared by the usual process from toluol , when distilled with a mixture of iron and acetic acid the method of reduction now generally adopted in the manufacture of aniline has furnished the crystalline alkaloid of M. Collin with all its properties .
The identity was proved moreover by analysis .
The rest is rapidly told .
The examination was at once extended to the dinitro-compounds of the homologues of toluol , and more especially to dinitrobenzol .
The behaviour of these substances under the influence of acetate of iron , as might have been expected , is perfectly analogous to that of dinitrotoluol .
It is my intention to lay before the Society a detailed account of the diatomic bases which are thus produced .
For the present I will mention only some of the properties of phenylene-diamine and toluylene-diamine , in order to give an idea of the general character of this class of bases .
Phenylene-diamine .
Freshly distilled , it presents itself as a slightly coloured heavy oil , which , like phenylamine , has a tendency to assume a brown coloration on exposure to the atmosphere .
The ' base remains liquid often for days , and then gradually solidifies into a mass of crystals , which become hard and white by washing with ether .
The fusing-point of phenylene-diamine is 63 ? .
Its boiling-point is near 280 ?
; it distils without alteration .
This substance is very soluble in water and alcohol ; the solutions have a distinctly alkaline reaction .
It is far less soluble in ether .
Phenylene-diamine contains C611 , Nf----C6 114 } 6 Il N2 = 112 } N2 N It N , .
This base , as might have been expected , is diacid .
A beautifully crystallized sulphate was found to contain [ ( C6 114)"N2f( The dichloride is very soluble in water , but was easily crystallized from concentrated hydrochloric acid .
It was found to contain(C61H4 ) " IN L -[( 11 N2I C12 .
Addition of dichloride of platinum to the solution of the chloride furnishes the platinum-salt , which crystallizes in splendid needles of the composition [ ( C. I- ) } N ] Cl 22Pt Cl2 .
Phenylene-diamine is remarkable for the facility with which its salts , as well as its other derivatives , crystallize .
In this respect it worthily emulates its monatomic correlative , phenylamine .
The bromide and iodide are separated at once , in the form of crystalline masses , when phenylene-diamine is brought in contact with the respective acids .
The salts thus produced crystallize splendidly from water , and more especially from alcohol .
The nitrate and oxalate are not less beautiful .
The salts of phenylene-diamine are readily decomposed by the fixed caustic alkalies ; the base is thus separated in oily globules , which only gradually solidify .
Ammonia likewise separates the phenylene-diamine from its saline compounds ; the slightest excess , however , redissolves it , and the solution is apt to become brown , and then contains products of transformation .
This observation explains in a measure why the diatomic base cannot be conveniently obtained by the usual method of reduction by , sulphide of ammonium .
Toluylene-diamine .
This substance is a crystalline solid .
It dissolves freely in water , forming an alkaline solution .
It is likewise soluble in alcohol , and less so in ether .
Toluylene-diamine is one of the most beautiful compounds I have ever seen .
From boiling water it crystallizes in needles , which frequently acquire an inch in length .
Like phenylene-diamine , this compound is apt to assume a yellowish tint in contact with the air .
Crystallization from water does not remove this tint , which only yields to treatment with animal charcoal .
The aqueous solution of toluylene-diamine rapidly acquires a dark-brown colour .
The new substance fuses at 990 , and distils without change ; the boiling-point is above 280 ?
, a little higher than that of phenylenediamine .
I shall , however , determine the boiling-points more accurately as soon as I shall have procured myself larger quantities of both substances .
The analysis of toluylene-diamine has led to the expression C7 Ilo N2 , = ( C7 I , ) " } This formula was verified by the examination of a sulphate crystallizing in perfectly well-formed , long and rather thin prisms , apt to assume a beautiful pink colour , which were found to contain [ ( 1 " }N2 ] ( SO , ) " .
The nitrate forms long needles , [ ( C7 IIo ) " ) , j " N , [ ( 7HG " }N2 ] ( NO3)2 , very soluble in water and alcohol .
The bromide crystallizes in short prisms , likewise soluble in water and alcohol , having the composition [ ( C7 '16 ) " NJ Br , .
L 116.1 i ' The chloride is more soluble and somewhat less easily crystallized from water , but it may , like the corresponding phenylene-diamine compound , be crystallized from hydrochloric acid .
It contains [ r-(CN , , 1 , , The platinum-salt crystallizes in golden scales .
It is somewhat soluble in water , and is therefore conveniently washed with alcohol .
The formula of this substance is ( C7 6 ) " }N , C2 , 2PtCl , .
The substances of which I have submitted a short account to the Society are capable of furnishing an almost endless variety of derivatives .
They are acted upon by cyanogen , chloride of cyanogen , by the chlorides of the acid radicals ( chloride of acetyl and chloride of benzoyl ) , by the iodides of the alcohol-radicals , by disulphide of carbon , &amp;c. , forming a series of substances most of them remarkably well crystallized .
Their composition being nearly always indicated in advance by theory , it is not my intention to examine these various derivatives in detail , but I shall avail myself of the two easily accessible diamines which I have described , for the purpose of establishing by a few numbers the chief characteristics of the diatomic bases corresponding to the aromatic monamines .
I propose more especially to examine the deportment of these substances under the influence of nitrous acid .
The action of nitrous acid upon aniline furnishing phenyl-alcohol , n6 +5 o ++ , CH N+ HNO , -02C6 }3 + O+ II +N , there is some hope of meeting , in the analogous decomposition of phenylene-diamine with the diatomic phenylene-alcohol ( phenylglycol ) , ( Co IL)"}C , 1 ff H2 N2+ 2HNO2(C } 02+21 } O+N4 ) .
The facility with which acetate of iron effects the reduction of nitro-compounds in cases in which the sulphide of ammonium acts but slowly , or is altogether inadmissible on account of secondary de .
compositions which it may induce , suggests this method for the production of the aromatic bases of higher atomicity , which are at present unknown .
Trinitronaphtaline might thus yield a basic compound , ( C0lo IH)'"l C1O H1N , = 113 N3 ; 113 and even the triatomic base of the phenyl-series might possibly be obtained in this manner ; for although we have not at present trinitrobenzol at our disposal , we could submit the nitro-bases themselves to further amidation .
I have satisfied myself by experiment that phenylene-diamine may be just as well obtained by the reduction of nitraniline as of dinitrobenzol ; and it deserves therefore to be ascertained whether dinitraniline will yield the compound ( Co 113 ) 'C H9 N3= 3 N , 3J which would be the first aromatic triamine .
In conclusion , I may be permitted to express my best thanks to MM .
Ch. Collin and Coblentz for the liberal manner in which they have furnished me the materials for the experiments described .
By facilitating the scientific elaboration of the new diatomic compounds , these gentlemen have endeavoured most gracefully to acknowledge the debt of gratitude which the aniline-industry owes to theoretical inquiries in organic chemistry .

