Researches into the Molecular Constitution of the Organic Bases .
By Dr. A. W. HOFMANN , F.C.S. , Professor of the Royal College of Chemistry of London .
( Second Memoir .
) ' Communicated by Sir JAMES CLARK , Bart. , F.R.S. Received March 12 , -Read April 3 , 1851 .
ABOUT twelve months ago I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society an account of a series of researches into the mnolecular constitution of the volatile organic bases* : at present I beg to submit to the consideration of the Society the history of a new group of alkaloids , which , although intimately connected with the former by their origin , differ from them altogether by their properties , and especially in not being volatile .
The members of this new group of alkaloids are so numerous , their deportment is so singular , and their derivatives raimify in so many directions , that I have not as yet been able to complete the study of these substances in all their bearings ; nor is it my intention to go fully into the chemistry of the subject in the present communication , my object being merely to establish the existence of these bodies , and to give a general outline of their connection with the volatile bases , and of their most plominent chemical and physical properties , reserving a detailed description of their salts and derivatives to a future memoir .
In the paper above referred to , I advanced the position that the majority of the volatile organic bases might be represented by the general expression x ) Y N , ZJ a formula which coincides with that of ammonia , if X=Y=Z=H .
I proved by experiment that the terms X , Y and Z may represent , not only hydrogen , but a variety of hydrocarbons , especially the so-called alcohol-radicals ( Cn H(n+ ) ) , and endeavoured , on the ground of these experiments , to classify the volatile organic bases according to the amount of basict hydrogen retained in the several alkaloids .
I thus arrived at three groups of bases , for which , in accordance with traditional names , I proposed the terms amidogen-bases , imidogen-bases and nitrile-bases .
The ideas enunciated regarding the constitution of the volatile organic bases , were , it is true , to a certain extent , the result of theoretical speculation ; but they were so perfectly in accordance with all the observations recorded , and had been submitted to the test of experiment in so many directions , that no doubt was left in my mind regarding their correctness .
Still , the former inquiry had elicited several facts which I was unable to explain by the view which I had taken .
These facts I have since endeavoured to elucidate by additional experiments ; the results detailed in the following pages , I am happy to say , are in perfect accordance with my former observations , the extension of which has led me , at the same time , to a still more general conception of the question .
After having succeeded in replacing , step by step , one , two or three equivalents of hydrogen in ammonia by a corresponding number of compound atoms , the question arose whether the agent by which these changes were affected would exert a still farther influence upon the last product of the reaction .
In order to decide this question by experiment , I submitted two nitrile-bases , diethylaniline and triethylamine , to a prolonged action of bromide of ethyl .
These experiments , of which a full account is given in my preceding memoir ( pages 106 and 122 ) , did not lead to perfectly decisive results .
It was evident that in these cases a reaction ensued ; even on using both the base under examination , and the bromide in the absolutely dry state , a gradual change was observed to take place , a small but unmistakeable quantity of hydrobromates being invariably formed .
No doubt , however , could be entertained as to this reaction being altogether different from the preceding stages of the process , for instance , the conversion of ammonia into ethylamine , of ethylamine to diethylamine , &amp;c. ; it was proved , moreover , by careful and frequently-repeated experiment , that this process , whatever its nature might be , in no case gave rise to the formation of any other volatile bases containing a larger number of replacing radicals than the nitrile-base submitted to investigation .
I have been again studying these reactions during the past year on a much larger scale , whereby the experiments were greatly facilitated ; and here I gladly avail myself of an opportunity of expressing my sincere thanks to the Royal Society for the kind and encouraging interest they have taken in this inquiry , the new results of which are mainly attributable to their liberal and munificent support .
ACTION OF BROMIDE AND IODIDE OF ETHYL UPON TRIETHYLAMINE .
In the paper repeatedly referred to , I have stated that a mixture of an aqueous solution of triethylamine and bromide of ethyl , sealed up in a tube , solidified after several hours ' ebullition , and that the crystals consisted chiefly of the fibrous hydrobrotnate of triethylamine , with which however a certain quantity of white opake granular crystals invariably was mixed .
I have endeavoured to increase the quantity of the latter by using both the bromide of ethyl and the triethylamnine in the anhydrous state .
But by thus changing the conditions of the formation , the progress of the reaction is retarded in the most remarkable manner , days elapsing before the conversion is completed .
While engaged in these experiments , I found that the result intended may be obtained almost instantaneously by substituting the iodide for the bromide of ethyl ; and as this observation was immediately followed by a perfect elucidation of the whole question , I have scarcely returned again to the use of the bromide .
On adding perfectly anhydrous iodide of ethyl to triethylamine dried over hydrate of potassa , the mixture becomes slightly turbid , heat being evolved at the same time .
At the common temperature the action goes on very gradually , and after the lapse of several days , the mixture is converted into a solid mass .
On the other hand , if the mixture be exposed for a minute or two to the temperature of boiling water , a very powerful reaction ensules ; the liquid remains , even after the removal of the source of heat , for some time in a state of lively ebullition , and solidifies after cooling , into a hard mass of crystals , which is snow-white or of a yellowish tint , according as either the triethylamine or the iodide of ethyl has been in excess .
To avoid losing iodide of ethyl , and especially triethylamine , which is the result of a long series of troublesome and expensive processes , I have usually performed the reaction in strong glass tubes of between three and four feet in length , which were sealed before the blowpipe after the substances had been introduced .
The crystalline mass produced in this reaction readily dissolves even in cold water .
If the iodide was in excess this substance separates in heavy oily globules , which may be readily separated and recovered by distillation , and the solution is inodorous , and either neutral or very slightly acid ; in the latter case it has always a marked yellowish tint .
On the other hand , if the base was in excess , the solution of the crystals was colourless and alkaline ; the alkaline reaction disappears however on ebullition , triethylamine being disengaged .
The crystals are likewise soluble in alcohol , but almost insoluble in ether .
The purification of the crystals is not attended with any difficulties ; it is in fact sufficient to dissolve them in cold water and to allow the solution to evaporate spontaneously , when beautiful well-defined white crystals of considerable size are deposited , which may be easily separated by mechanical means , from small quantities of a reddish iodine-compound , which is sometimes formed by the action of the air .
This latter substance is formed in much larger quantity at higher temperatures , wherefore it is advisable to avoid the use of boiling water in the purification .
The crystals are anhydrous ; when exposed to the temperature of boiling water they exhibit no change in weight .
When submitted to analysis they gave the following results : I. 0A4385 grm. of substance gave 06015 grm. of carbonic acid and 03040 grm. of water .
II .
0O5538 grm. of substance gave 0'5050 grm. of iodide of silver .
III .
0'5205 grm. of substance gave 0'4752 grm. of iodide of silver .
IV .
0'5000 grm. of substance gave 0'4552 grm. of iodide of silver .
3A2 359 These numbers lead to the following percentage composition : I. II .
III .
IV .
Carbon ... 37'41 -Hydrogen ... .
7'71 Iodine ... . .
-49-29 49'35 49'21 The simplest formula into which these results may be translated is C16 H20 N I , the theoretical values of which I subjoin for comparison with the experimental numbers .
Theory .
Mean of Experiments .
r 16 equivs. of Carbon ... 96-0 37-34 37-41 20 equivs. of Hydrogen. .
200 778 7 71 1 equiv. of Nitrogen ... 14'0 5'45 1 equiv. of Iodine ... 127-1 49'43 49'28 1 equiv. of Iodine-compound 257'1 100'00 Hence it would appear that the formation of the white crystals simply depends upon a direct combination of triethylamine with iodide of ethyl , forC2 H15 N+C4 H5 I=C16 H20 N I. L-v..----J L , __~__J Triethylamine .
Iodide of New crystalline Ethyl .
compound .
In perfect accordance with this formation is the change which the iodine-compound undergoes when subjected to the action of heat ; when rapidly heated the crystals fuse and are decomposed , the products being triethylamine and iodide of ethyl , which form two layers in the receiver , but rapidly unite again to the original compound .
In fact this recomnbination takes place to a considerable extent in the neck of the retort ; so that when first I became acquainted with this substance , I was for some time under the impression that the iodine-compound might be volatilized without decomposition .
I confess I had not anticipated the possibility of the existence of a compound having the above composition ; it appeared at the first glance in direct opposition to the theoretical view repeatedly referred to .
For if it was possible to decompose the new iodide by potassa just as the preceding iodides , obtained respectively by the action of bromide ( or iodide ) of ethyl upon ammonia , ethylamine and diethylamine , if it was possible to separate from this substance a new volatile base analogous to the preceding ethylated alkaloids , there was no reason why the process of ethylation should cease with the fourth equivalent of ethyl .
On the contrary , it then appeared more than probable , that the formations of ethylamine , diethylamine and triethylamine , far from being due to a successive replacement of the various equivalents of hydrogen in ammonia , were rather to be considered as special instances of a far more general tendency of carbon and hydrogen to accumulate in organic substances .
360 The eagerness with which I submitted this question to the test of experiment may be readily imagined .
On adding potassa to a solution of the iodine-compound in water , the liquid solidified at once into a crystalline mass , which I took of course for the base existing in the iodide ; analysis however soon showed that the substance thus precipitated is nothing but the iodide itself , which is less soluble in an alkaline solution than in pure water .
In fact , Analysis IV .
was made with a specimen which had thus been treated with potassa .
The iodide was now distilled with a very concentrated solution of potassa for several hours ; but during this time nothing but pure water passed over ; the solution in the retort solidified on cooling to crystals of the unchanged iodide .
When the solution of the iodide in potassa had become very concenftrated , it separated into two layers , an aqueous one and an oily one , which floated on the surface .
But even now no decomposition had been induced , the oily stratum solidifying on cooling into a crystalline cake of iodide perfectly unaltered .
It was only when the liquid was evaporated to dryness that a change took place ; but then the change was no longer due to the action of the potassa , but to the influence of heat , and in no way differed from the decomposition which the clystals undergo when heated alone .
The deportment with potassa of the new iodine-compound altogether precludes the idea of considering it as an analogue of the hydriodides of ethylamine , diethylamine , and tiiethylamine , all of which are readily decomposed under the influence of the alkalies .
However , the iodine , though it cannot be eliminated from the crystals by the alkalies , may be separated with the greatest facility by silver-salts ; in fact , the nitrate , the sulphate , the oxide of silver , behave with the iodine-compound exactly as with iodide of potassium or sodium .
On adding nitrate of silver to a solution of the iodide , iodide of silver is at once precipitated and a nitrate remains in solution , which on evaporation crystallizes in deliquescent needles .
With sulphate of silver , a perfectly similar change takes place , an analogous sulphate remaining in solution .
During these interchanges the liquids remain perfectly neutral .
If the solution of the iodide be digested with freshly precipitated protoxide of silver , the solution at once assumes a powerfully alkaline reaction , iodide of silver being formed : the same effect is produced by the action of caustic baryta upon the sulphate , sulphate of baryta being precipitated .
These reactions , when viewed collectively , exhibit a striking analogy between the new iodide and the metallic iodides , especially those of the alkali-metals .
In fact the molecular group combined with iodine , in the compound under examination , behaves like sodium or potassium ; it is a true organic metal in all its bearings .
For this metal I propose , on the ground of its formation and composition , the name Tetrethylammonium ( re &amp; rpa ) , which implies that it is built up by the intimate union of nitrogen with four equivalents of the hypothetical hydrocarbon called ethyl , and that it may be viewed as ammonium , in which the whole of the hydrogen is replaced by an equivalent proportion of the above hydrocarbon .
361 Ammonium .
Tetrethylammonium .
Hf C , H4 N. C5 N=C16H2o N. HJ C4 H5 HIj C4 nHj The new crystalline compound , according to this mode of viewing it , must be considered as iodide of tetrethylammonium , and its formation takes place in conse.quence of a transposition of the elements , which is perfectly analogous to that assumed by the followers of the ammonium-theory , in the formation of iodide of ammonium from ammonia and hydriodic acid .
~~BH ) .
3 H1 H }N+ H I-= HN I. HH C4H5 1 H5 c41H1 H5JN+C41 C4H5 .
C4Hs5N+C4Hs 4 I=N 1 C4 H5 C4 HJI will not enter here into the merits of the ammonium-theory ; the question whether this mode of representing the constitution of the ammonia-salts be correct or not , may be left out of consideration for the present .
The view I have taken of the new compound , and which I readily admit must stand and fall with the ammonium-theory , has the great advantage of closely assimilating these substances to the compounds of mineral chemistry , whereby the nomenclature is essentially facilitated .
I will now proceed to give a sketch of the tetrethylammonium-compounds , as far as this is necessary , in order to convey a clear perception of the character and the peculiarities of this group of bodies .
I reserve a detailed account of the derivatives of this group to a special memoir , in which I intend to give moreover a fuller description of diethylamine and triethylamine , which were only briefly noticed in my former paper .
Among the various substances derived from the new iodide , the corresponding oxide , the compound corresponding to oxide of arnmonium , attracted my attention in a pre-eminent degree .
Oxide of Tetrethylammonium .
I have already briefly stated how this substance is prepared ; on decomposing the iodide with an excess of sulphate of silver , a sulphate is obtained , from which sulphuric acid and excess of silver may be separated by baryta .
This was in fact the first process by which I separated the base ; it is , however , difficult to obtain the solution in this manner free from either baryta or sulphuric acid ; nor have I ever 362 used this process again , after I had found that digestion with freshly precipitated protoxide of silver produces at once the same effect .
The oxide is added in smalt proportions to the solution of the iodide , which is gently heated ; it is immediately converted into yellow iodide of silver , which assumes a white colour on stirring , as long as any undecomposed iodide is in solution .
Gradually the yellow colour becomes permanent , and the decomposition is complete as soon as an excess of unchanged oxide becomes perceptible by its colour .
On filtering off the silver-precipitate , a clear and colourless liquid is obtained , which contains the isolated base in solution .
It is of a powerfully alkaline reaction , which manifests itself , not only in its deportment with vegetable colours , but also in its possessing the pungent bitterness of quinine ; the solution , when strongly concentrated , not only burns the tongue , but it acts upon the epidermis , which it destroys like caustic potassa or soda .
On rubbing a solution of the oxide between the fingers , the well-known sensation produced by the fixed alkalies under the same circumstances is felt , and we perceive moreover the same peculiar odour .
Oxide of tetrethylammonium saponifies the fats as readily as potassa .
The experiment was made with cocoa-nut oil , which after half an hour 's ebullition with the new alkali was converted into a beautiful soft soap , having the appearance of an ordinary potassa-soap .
This soap washes very well .
I have traced the analogy of the new body with potassa in many other directions .
Chemists recollect the remarkable effect produced by ebullition with potassa in certain nitrogenous substances .
It was by this process that Dr. FOWNES , the discoverer of this reaction , converted furfuramide into the isomneric alkaloid , furfurine .
I found that boiling with oxide of tetrethylammonium effects this molecular change as rapidly as potassa .
Like potassa it decomposes oxalic ether into oxalic acid and alcohol , and evolves ammonia from ammonia-salts , even in the cold .
It may be substituted for potassa in TRoMMER 's well-known sugar-test .
Copper-solutions , mixed with either caneor grape-sugar , yield on addition of oxide of tetrethylammonium , a light-blue precipitate of the hydrate of the protoxide , which redissolves in an excess of the base , forming a deep blue solution , with a shade of green ; on ebullition the cane-sugar solution deposits a greenish precipitate , which is only slowly and always very incompletely converted into suboxide of copper .
In the presence of grape-sugar the reduction ensues instantaneously on application of heat .
The reactions of the new base with metallic oxides assimilate this compound as nearly as possible to the fixed caustic alkalies .
The following table exhibits the reactions of this body .
fWhite precipitate of the hydrate of the earth , insoluble in Barium-salts. .
an excess of the base .
S rWontium-sals White precipitate of the hydrate of the earth , insoluble in Strontium-salts excess of base .
, an excess of the base .
363 , Calcium-salts White precipitate of the hydrate of the earth , insoluble in Calcium-salts ... .
' an excess of the base .
Magnesium-salts .
{ .
White precipitate of the hydrate of the earth , insoluble in ' an excess of the base .
Aluinu-sWlts White gelatinous precipitate , soluble in a considerable exAluminum-salts ... A cess of the base .
Greenish precipitate of the hydrated sesquioxide , insoluble Chromilum-salts ... in an excess of the base .
Nickel-salts ... .
Apple-green hydrate of the protoxide , insoluble in excess .
Cobalt-salts .
Pink hydrate of the protoxide , insoluble in excess .
fWhitish precipitate of the hydrated protoxide , insoluble in Manganese-salts ... excess .
eron-salts .
Iron-salts .
Protoxide Sesquioxide .
Zinc-salts Lead-salts Silver-salts .
Mercury-salts .
Suboxide .
Protoxide Copper-salts Cadmium-salts Bismuth-salts .
Antimony-salts ( Teroxide ) Tin-salts .
fGreen precipitate of the hydrated protoxide , insoluble in ' excess .
fBrown precipitate of the hydrated sesquioxide , insoluble in excess .
White hydrate of the protoxide , soluble in excess ... White hydrate of the protoxide , soluble in excess. .
Brown protoxide , insoluble in excess. .
Black suboxide , insoluble in excess .
fRed precipitate , probably of a double salt , becoming yelL low protoxide by addition of excess .
fBlue hydrated protoxide , insoluble in excess , becoming black by ebullition ... White hydrated protoxide , insoluble in excess .
White hydrated teroxide , insoluble in excess .
}White hydrated teroxide , soluble in excess .
Protoxide ... .
White hydrated protoxide , soluble in excess .
Binoxide ... . .
White hydrated binoxide , soluble in excess .
Gold-salts ... . .
Yellow precipitate of the double compound .
Platinum-salts ... Yellow precipitate of the double compound .
It is evident that the salts of the metals , with the exception of those of chromium , whose oxide does not redissolve in an excess of the base , exhibit the same reactions with potassa and oxide of tetrethylammonium .
Although I did not anticipate great results from the experiment , I have submitted the new base to the action of the galvanic current , the pile being disposed as in BERZELIUS'S original experiment on the formation of the ammonium-amalgam .
364 However , no phenomenon , other than the decomposition of water , was observed .
This decomposition certainly appeared to be facilitated , especially if the base was employed in the form of sulphate .
Nor had potassium-amalgam the slightest effect upon oxide of tetrethylammonium .
I must still mention a peculiar reaction , somewhat singular at the first glance , which takes place on adding the concentrated oxide to alkaline solutions of iodide of potassium , when the crystalline iodide of tetrethylammonium is at once precipitated .
I need scarcely remark that this phenomenon is due to the insolubility of the iodide in alkaline solutions , and not to the new base possessing a greater affinity for iodine than potassium , whose oxide is thus actually liberated .
A moderately concentrated solution of oxide of tetrethylammonium may be boiled without alteration ; it is only in a very advanced stage of evaporation that decomposition gradually sets in .
The change occurs even in the water-bath , as soon as the base becomes nearly dry .
On evaporating , however , under the bell of the air-pump in the presence of sulphuric acid and lime , the base may be obtained in the dry state .
I have endeavoured to obtain it in this manner in a condition fit for analysis , but all my attempts have been hitherto in vain ; a concentrated solution of the oxide , when placed in a vacuum , deposits , after some days ' exposure , long hair-like needles , which are , however , deliquescent in the extreme , and attract carbonic acid with great avidity .
In both respects they are scarcely inferior to potassa .
By remaining longer in vacuo , these crystals disappear again , and the whole liquid dries up to a semisolid mass , which also deliquesces rapidly , and becomes carbonated on exposure to the air .
As there was not the slightest chance of getting this substance into a combustion-tube , I endeavoured to ascertain its composition , by decomposing a known quantity of the iodide with protoxide of silver , evaporating in vacuo in a glass dish , which on removing from the air-pump , could be covered wit}h a glass plate , and determining the weight of the solid mass remaining .
These experiments , however , have not led to any decisive results .
Soon after the formation of the crystals , the liquid becomes coated with a thin pellicle , which retards the evaporation to such an extent , that even after a fortnight 's exposure the mass still continues to lose in weight ; but by that time , however carefully the air was excluded , the base has partly been converted into carbonate .
Some similar experiments , made in the amyl-series , which I shall describe in another part of this paper , have been attended with more success .
From these experiments it may be inferred by analogy , that the residue remaining on evaporating a solution of oxide of tetrethylamtnonium is the hydrate C4 H5 C4 H5 NO , HO C4 H5 corresponding to hydrate of potassa .
The hair-like crystals contain evidently in addition several equivalents of water of crystallization ; they may possibly be analogous to the well-known crystallized hydrate of potassa KO , HO1+4 Aq , which is formed at low temperatures .
It was above stated that the residuary substance left on evaporating a solution of the oxide of tetrethylammonium is decomposed , even at the temperature of boiling water .
During this change a powerful ammoniacal odour is evolved , the substance strongly intumesces , and is by degrees perfectly volatilized .
If this process be conducted in an appropriate apparatus , it is found that the base , under these circumstances , yields three products of decomposition , namely , water , an highly alkaline oil , rather soluble in water , and a colourless inflammable gas .
The oily base has all the properties of triethylamine ; it was identified moreover by the analysis of its characteristic platinum-salt .
0'2257 grm. of platinum-salt gave on ignition 0'0725 grm. of platinum .
Theoretical percentage .
Experimental percentage .
Platinum ... 32-12 32 12 The inflammable gas evolved was pure olefiant gas ; it was perfectly absorbed by bromine water , proving the absence of hydrocarbons not belonging to the family Cn H , , and the oily liquid formed had all the properties of the Dutch liquid .
It readily solidified into a crystalline mass when exposed to a freezing mixture , a deportment whereby the olefiant gas compound may be easily distinguished from the corresponding compounds of propylene , butylene and amylene .
Hence the metamorphosis of oxide of tetrethylammonium under the influence of heat is represented by the following equation : C4 51 pr 4 C4 Ha NO , HO=2HO+ C4 H , N+C , H4 .
C4 H51 This change is not only interesting as an additional corroboration of the formula of the base , but likewise as affording a new source from which triethylamine may be obtained in a state of perfect purity ; for as I shall show presently , the oxide may be also prepared from very impure mixtures of the lower ethyl-bases , and even from ammonia directly .
This , too , deserves to be noticed , as a new instance of the failure of the analogy between iodide and oxide of ethyl ( ether)-a fact which was pointed out long ago by MM .
LAURENT and GERHARDT , and most indubitably demonstrated by the recent investigations of Dr. WILLIAMSON .
If the decomposition by heat of oxide of tetrethylammonium was perfectly analogous to that of the iodide , we should expect to see the former split into triethylamine and oxide of ethyl ( ether ) .
C4 H5I C4 ils ( 5C4 H5 C41NI= C4H5 !
.N+C4H5I .
C4 Hi C4 HJ 366 H5fC4 H5 C4 H5N O= C4 5 N. +C4 H50 .
C4 HsJ C4 H5 But , as I have stated above , this decomposition yields , instead of ether , water and olefiant gas .
I have prepared several of the salts of tetrethylammonium .
The sulphate , the nitrate , the phosphate , the carbonate , the hydroch]orate and the hydrobromate , all crystallize .
But these salts are extremely soluble , and , with the exception of the carbonate , deliquescent , and but little adapted to analysis .
They may be obtained either by directly saturating the oxide with the respective acids , or by double decomposition .
The phosphate is conveniently prepared by gently heating a solution of the iodide with an excess of phosphate of silver , when , according to the silversalt employed , either the common phosphate , or the pyrophosphate , &amp;c. may be obtained .
The phosphate thus obtained is strongly alkaline , like the tribasic sodasalt .
Tetrethylammonium forms a great number of beautiful double salts , of which I have examined a few .
Platinum-salt.-On adding a solution of bichloride of platinum to the chloride , an orange-yellow precipitate appears at once , which in every respect resembles the corresponding potassiumor ammonium-compound .
Like the latter , it is slightly soluble in water , and less so in alcohol and in ether ; like the latter , it may be crystallized in beautiful octahedrons .
The salt was repeatedly prepared .
The specimens used for analysis I. , II .
and III .
, were precipitated from the pure chloride obtained by saturating the oxide with hydrochloric acid ; specimens IV .
and V. , simply by removing the iodine from the iodide by nitrate of silver , acidifying with hydrochloric acid , and adding bichloride of platinum to the mixture of nitrate and chloride thus obtained .
The latter circumstance may have caused the trifling discrepancy , which will be observed in the numbers below .
I. 0 3837 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0A4065 grm. of carbonic acid , and 02100 grim .
of water .
II .
0'3586 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0*1056 grm. of platinum .
III .
0'2784 grmn .
of platinum-salt gave 0*0816 grm. of platinum .
IV .
0*5228 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'1526 grm. of platinum .
V. 0'6782 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0*1977 grm. of platinum .
Percentage-composition .
I. II .
It .
IV .
V. Carbon. .
28'89 Hydrogen. .
6'08 -Platinum. .
29*48 29'35 29*19 29*16 3 2 The formula C16 H20 N C1 , Pt C12= C4 5N Cl , Pt C2 C4 H5 requires the following values , which I collate with the experimental numbers .
Theory .
Mean of Experiment .
f ^--16 equivs. of Carbon ... .
96 28'63 28'89 20 equivs. of Hydrogen ... 20 5.95 6-08 1 equiv. of Nitrogen ... .
14 4'20 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... .
106-5 31'78 -1 equiv. of Platinum ... . .
98'68 29'44 29'27 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt. .
335'18 100'00 Gold-Salt.-It is formed by mixing the solution of the two chlorides , when a lemon-yellow precipitate takes place , which is but slightly soluble in cold water or hydrochloric acid .
Before analysis it was recrystallized from boiling water .
I was satisfied with a determination of the metal in this compound .
I. 0-2555 grm. of gold-salt gave 0'1075 grm. of gold .
II .
0-4344 grm. of gold-salt gave 0-1822 grm. of gold .
The formula C45 C4 H5 C4 H5 N C , lAu Cl3 C4 H5 requires the following values : Theory .
Mean of Experiment .
1 equiv. of Chloride of Tetrethylammonium 165'50 35'32 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... 106'50 22-72 1 equiv. of Gold ... ... ... 196'66 41'96 42'00 1 equiv. of Gold-salt ... ... . .
468'66 100'00 Mercury-Salts.-a .
Chlorine-Compound.-On adding an excess of protochloride of mercury to a nearly neutral solution of the chloride , a beautiful crystalline white precipitate is formed , which is soluble in water and in hydrochloric acid , especially on ebullition .
From the boiling solution it is deposited on cooling in plates of a greasy appearance .
The analysis refers to two different preparations , the same specimen being used for I. and II .
The mercury was determined as protosulphide .
I. 0'4595 grm. of substance gave 0'3147 grm. of protosulphide of mercury .
II .
0'3960 grm. of substance gave 0'4020 grm. of chloride of silver .
III .
0'5530 grm. of substance gave 0-5580 grm. of chloride of silver .
368 Percentage .
I. II .
III .
Mercury. .
59*01 Chlorine ... 25'11 25*00 The only expression into which these numbers may be translated is the formula C4 HT5 C4H5 N Cl , 5Hg Cl , C4 H5 C4 H5 which requires the following values : Theory .
Mean of Experiment .
1 equiv. of Tetrethylammonium .
130 15'49 6 equivs. of Chlorine ... .
213 25'20 25'05 5 equivs. of Mercury ... ... 500 59*31 59'01 1 equiv. of Mercury-salt ... . .
843 100-00 This somewhat peculiar composition , though chloride of mercury is known to join other compounds in rather unusual proportions , induced me to prepare an analogous iodine-compound , which on analysis was found to have a corresponding formula .
b. Iodine-Compound.-This substance was prepared in two different ways .
Protiodide of mercury , when boiled with a solution of iodide of tetrethylammonium , loses at once its red colour , and is converted into a yellow compound , which fuses and collects as a transparent layer at the bottom of the vessel .
On cooling it solidifies to a brittle mass , with crystalline fracture ( I. ) .
The same substance is obtained by adding a large excess of protochloride of mercury to a solution of iodide of tetrethylammonium .
A whitish crystalline precipitate is produced , which consists of a mixture of the double salt just mentioned , with a large amount of the corresponding chlorine-compound .
By boiling with water the latter is removed , the former remaining behind ( II .
) .
I. 0'7305 grm. of salt gave 0'7402 grm. of iodide of silver .
II .
0*8258 grm. of salt gave 0*8270 grm. of iodide of silver .
Percentage .
I. II .
Iodine ... . .
54*34 53'99 The formula C4 Hs5 C 5N I , sHgI C4 H5 C4 H5 requires the following values : Theory .
Mean of Experiment .
1 equiv. of Tetrethylammonium. .
130*00 9'37 6 equivs. of Iodine ... .
758-16 54'61 53-76 5 equivs of Mercury ... .
500'00 36'02 1 equiv. of Mercury-salt ... . .
1388'16 100'00 The new oxide forms several other double compounds ; but as their analysis would have scarcely given additional elucidation to the subject , I have omitted to study them in detail .
The action of various chemical agents upon the compounds of tetrethylarnmnonium gives rise to a series of very remarkable substances .
Chlorine , bromine and iodine , convert the base into substitution-products , in which the basic character of the original atom has disappeared ; of these the bromine-compound is distinguished by its splendid appearance , crystallizing as it does from alcohol in long magnificent orangeyellow needles .
The iodine-compound , too , is very beautiful ; it forms either on addition of iodine-solution to the base , or on evaporating a solution of the iodide exposed to the action of the air .
In fact it is difficult to avoid the formation of this substance in recrystallizing iodide of tetrethylammonium .
Cyanic acid yields with the base a crystalline compound , a sort of urea , which is remarkable for its composition , inasmuch as it may be viewed as ordinary urea , in which the four equivalents of hydrogen are replaced by ethyl .
I hope to communicate shortly a full account of these several substances .
The preceding sketch , incomplete as it is , sufficiently exhibits the leading features of the new class of substances , of which tetrethylammonium and its compounds are the prototypes .
It is at once evident that there is a marked difference between these latter and the bases which I have described in my former memoir .
Irrespectively of the non-volatility of the new basic oxide , which forms in itself a line of demarcation , there are many other properties not less distinctive which attract our attention .
The consecutive replacement of the several hydrogen-equivalents of ammonia induces a gradual change in the properties of the original atom ; ethylamine is almost as soluble in water as ammonia itself ; in diethylamine this property is less marked ; and finally , triethylamine is still less soluble .
But another equivalent of ethyl being added , the substance changes altogether in property ; it becomes soluble in water in all proportions , in fact so soluble that it can scarcely be obtained in the dry state .
A perfectly analogous , although reverse deportment , is exhibited by the platinum-salts of the various bases ; here we find that the solubility of the salts augments with the degree of ethylation , the salt of triethylamine being soluble in the extreme , while suddenly the tetrethylammonium-compound becomes not more soluble than the ammnoniumcompound itself .
It is evident that ethylamine , diethylamine and triethylamine are compound ammonias ; the tetrethylated base is a compound oxide of ammonium .
It now remained only to submit the new base again to the action of iodide of ethyl .
An experiment on a small scale showed that the two compounds do not fail to act promptly upon one another .
The mixture , after an hour 's ebullition in a sealed tube , solidified into a beautiful crystalline mass .
In order to obtain a precise notion of this reaction , I repeated this experiment upon a grand scale .
Two ounces of iodide of tetrethylammonium were caustified by protoxide of silver , and then submitted to the action of about half a pound of iodide of ethyl .
The mixture was kept boiling in a glass flask , provided with a long tube , in which the volatilized substances were condensed and returned to the seat of the reaction .
During the whole process not a trace of permanent gas was disengaged .
After a day 's ebullition the solution had become neutral , and deposited on cooling magnificent crystals of iodide of tetrethylammonium , which were identified by analysis .
In fact , for the determinations III .
and V. , mentioned at the analysis of the platinum-compound , the salts had been prepared with the base obtained in this manner .
On submitting the mother-liquor of the crystals to distillation in such a manner as to collect only the most volatile products , a considerable amount of perfectly pure alcohol was obtained , which was identified by a careful comparison of all its properties .
The action of iodide of ethyl upon oxide of tetrethylammonium is therefore represented by the following equationC4 H51 C4 H5 C4H5 N O , HO+C4 I=C4 H5 O , HO+ C4 H5 N I. C4 H5J C4 H5 I have since found that metallic oxides , such as protoxide of silver , in the presence of water , all exert the same action on iodide of ethyl ; in this case a metallic iodide is formed , alcohol being reproduced .
The experiment just described shows that , as might have been expected , the ethylation cannot be carried on ad infinitum , and that the oxide of tetrethylammonium is the highest term attainable in the ethyl-series .
The latter substance continues to act upon iodide of ethyl , but the change affects solely theiodide of ethyl , while the base is no longer altered .
The preceding researches are , in themselves , sufficient to establish the point of theory which is here in question ; still I hoped to gain a broader basis for raising general conclusions by collecting some additional facts .
The repetition in the methylor amyl-series of an experiment already made in the ethyl-series , resembles , it is true , the working of a design in blue or green , which has been previously printed in red .
Nevertheless , irrespectively of the farther elaboration of the theory of homologues , which is still wanted , such experiments lead frequently to new and unexpected observations , which often amply repay the trouble and tediousness of such inquiries .
I therefore made the experiments which yielded the following results:371 A m ixture of triethylamine and iodide of methyl solidifies , after some time , to a crystalline mass , even at the common temperature .
On ebullition the change takes place instantaneously .
The crystalline compound thus produced may be viewed as the iodide of an organic metal , containing , together with nitrogen , one equivalent of methyl , and three of ethyl .
4H5,.f C4 H5:1 C4H5 CI4 H3 " In accordance with the nomenclature I have proposed for the preceding substance , this compound may be called iodide of methylotriethylammonium .
And here is perhaps the place to ask for indulgence , for the sesquipedalia verba , which I am using in the account of this investigation , and of which the worst , I fear , are still to come .
However , the use of these barbarous names has the advantage of conveying an idea of the composition of the substances under examination in the shortest and most impressive manner .
Moreover , none of these names are likely to remain in science ; all these substances , which are prepared solely for the elucidation of a principle , will be forgotten as soon as the object is gained ; they resemble paving-stones , each of which is very important in laying down a street , though no interest is attached to the blocks themselves , as soon as we are passing along the level road .
Iodide of methylotriethylammonium has all the properties which I have enumerated when speaking of the preceding compound .
It is extremely soluble , forming a perfectly neutral , very bitter solution .
On adding potassa to this solution , a heavy oily liquid is precipitated , which gradually solidifies .
This is the unchanged iodide , which , like the corresponding tetrethylammonium-compound , is less soluble in alkaline solutions than in water .
The iodide is readily decomposed by protoxide of silver , whereby the oxide is obtained in solution , which is caustic and bitter in the extreme .
In vacuo it dries up to a crystalline compound , analogous to oxide of tetrethylainmonium , the properties of which present the same difficulties to analysis .
I have fixed the composition of this compound by the analysis of the beautiful platinumn-precipitate , which is formed on adding the bichloride to a solution of the base saturated with hydrochloric acid .
0'3530 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'1075 grm. of platinum .
To the formula C2 H3 C14 H1s N Cl , t C1 C Pt C12 , Pt C4 H5 C4 H5j 372 correspond the following values : Theory .
Experiment .
i-----m 1 equiv. of Methylotriethylammonium.116'00 36'15 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... 106'50 33'15 1 equiv. of Platinum ... ... .
98'68 30-70 30'48 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... .
321 18 100'00 I have not studied this substance very minutely ; it forms crystalline salts with sulphuric , nitric , oxalic and hydrochloric acids .
ACTION OF IODIDE OF AMYL UPON TRIETHYLAMINE .
The experiment was conducted in a perfectly similar manner , and the results obtained are perfectly analogous .
The action however is by no means as rapid as in the preceding cases , the amyl-substances being invariably much more inert than the corresponding terms in the ethyland methyl-series .
In order to complete the process , it is necessary to heat the mixture in sealed tubes for two or three days .
The iodide of amylotriethylammonium , for this is the new compound , forms remarkably fine crystals , which exhibit the fatty lustre and touch peculiar to the amyl-compounds .
It is extremely soluble in water and alcohol , insoluble in ether .
The solutions have the bitter taste of quinine .
On adding potassa or carbonate of potassa , the iodide separates as an oil , which rapidly shoots into brilliant needles .
The salt when slightly moist fuses at 1000 C. to a clear oily liquid , which becomes solid on cooling and perfect desiccation , and gradually assumes a yellow tint .
The iodine-determination gave the following result:0'4210 grm. of iodide gave 0-3310 grm. of iodide of silver .
The formula C22 H24 N I= C4 5I C4 H5 Clo HiJ requires the following values : Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Amylotriethylammonium ... 172-0 5751 1 equiv. of Iodine ... ... 127'1 42'49 42*51 1 equiv. of Iodine-compound ... .
2991 10000 When boiled with protoxide of silver the base is liberated and dissolves , forming an alkaline liquid of extremely bitter taste .
The alkaline properties are however less marked than in the preceding bases .
On evaporation the oxide of amylotriethylammonium remains in form of a syrup , which I have never seen assuming the crystalline form , perhaps because I have not allowed it to stand for a sufficiently long time .
The sulphate and oxalate of this base , when evaporated in the bell of the air-pump , leave a syrupy or gummy residue like the base itself .
The nitrate , however , and the hydrochlorate form beautiful crystals , the former hard , permanent needles of a cooling taste ; the latter , leaves which are extremely deliquescent .
The solution of the hydrochlorate is not precipitated by bichloride of platinum unless very concentrated .
The salt once formed however is far less soluble .
Frotm a boiling solution in water it shoots into most magnificent orange-yellow needles , sometimes half an inch in length .
On ignition , 0-2620 grin .
of platinum-salt gave 0'0675 grm. of platinum .
The values corresponding to the formula rC4 H , 5 C , , H26 N Cl , Pt Cl= C4 H5 : N Cl , Pt Cl , LC4 H5 are Theory .
Experiment .
( 5A 1 equiv. of Amylotriethylammonium .
172'00 45'60 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... .
106'50 28-24 1 equiv. of Platinum ... ... .
98'68 26'16 25-76 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... . .
377'18 100'00 The percentage of the platinum is unusually low when compared with the theoretical value , a fact which I suppose is due to the recrystallization of the salt .
In several cases I have observed that the platinum-salts of these bases undergo a slight decomposition under these circumstances , which is not indicated by the appearance of the riecrystallized salt , but which is invariably pointed out by a diminution of the amount of platinum .
I am not as yet acquainted with the mode of this change .
In the present instance I have not repeated the experiment , because the mode of formation , the analysis of the iodide , and moreover the decomposition of the base , preclude all doubts respecting the formula of the compound under examination .
The remarkable change exhibited by oxide of tetrethylaminonium , when submitted to the action of heat , necessarily induced me to study the deportment of the amylotriethylated base under similar circumstances .
This study appeared to promise some farther revelations respecting the molecular constitution of this body , a hope in which I was not deceived .
I had no doubt in my mind that the process alluded to would give rise to the formation of a nitrile-base , but there were two alternatives which presented themselves as to the nature of this base .
The question arose , Will an equivalent of ethyl or amyl be broken up in this decomposition ?
This question had to be decided by experiment .
374 Oxide of amylotriethylammonium , when subjected to distillation , begins to froth as soon as the solution becomes concentrated , after which decomposition rapidly sets in .
The products of this decomposition are water , an oily substance , and a transparent inflammable gas .
The latter , by the method I have indicated when speaking of the decomposition of oxide of tetrethylammonium , was proved to be perfectly pure olefiant gas , when the composition of the oily liquid was no longer doubtful .
It was evident that this substance must be a nitrile-base containing two equivalents of ethyl and one equivalent of amyl .
C4 HS C4 H5 ' C4 H5 1NO , HO 2HO + C , H NC4 H5 N+C4 , .
C4 H rNOH ~~~~~~Cllo Hl11 Experiment has entirely confirmed this view .
Diethylamylamine-for this is the name which appertains to the new compound has a peculiar , not unpleasant aromatic odour , and an analogous somewhat bitter taste , is lighter than water , in which it scarcely dissolves , imparting to it a slight but decided alkaline reaction .
It combines with acids less readily than do the bases which occupy a lower position in the system .
The salts with sulphuric , nitric , oxalic and hydrochloric acids , crystallize beautifully , but are deliquescent .
Diethylamylamine , when dried over hydrate of potassa and rectified , exhibits a perfectly constant boiling-point at 154 ?
CI have fixed the composition of this base , as usual , by the analysis of the platinumsalt .
This compound is obtained by concentrating a mixture of the hydrochlorate with bichloride of platinum , when it shoots into long magnificent orange-yellow prisms .
I. 0'3405 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0955 grm. of platinum .
II .
0'3805 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0-1065 grm , of platinum .
Percentage .
I. II .
Platinum ... ... 28'04 28'02 The formula cC4H15 C18 I21 N , HCI , Pt Cl2=i C4 HS , NH Cl , Pt Cl2 LC10 H1J requires Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Hydrochlorate of Diethylamylamine .
17950 51 40 2 equivs. of Chlorine ... .
7100 20'34 1 equiv of Platinum ... . .
98'68 28'26 28*03 I equiv. of Platinum-salt ... . .
349*18 100'00 3c2 375 The formula of diethylamylamine is moreover supported by the boiling-point .
This compound differs from diethylamine by C18 H21 N-C8 HI , N=CIo H1o=5C2 H2 .
I have lately prepared diethylamine on a larger scale , and found its boiling-point to be 57 ?
C. ; on starting from this number , the boiling-point of diethylamnylamine should be 57+(5 X 19)= 152 ? .
The experimental boiling-point is 154 ? .
Having seen by the preceding experiments that ethyl , as it were , yields its place to amyl , the idea naturally suggested itself to inquire into the mutual relations of ethyl and methyl under similar circumstances .
For this purpose I might have studied the action of heat upon oxide of methylotriethylammonium ; however , as I had some grammes of diethylanylamine at my disposal , I preferred to methylate this compound , and examine the new body thus obtained .
ACTION OF IODIDE OF METHYL UPON DIETHYLAMYLAMINE .
On adding iodide of methyl to diethylamylamine , the phenomena which I have already several times described are repeated in turn .
The action in this case however is so violent that the iodide must be added very gradually , for on suddenly mixing , the liquid is projected from the vessel with a sort of explosion ; on account of the low boiling-point of the methyl-compound , it is advisable to mix in a tubulated retort provided with a condenser .
On cooling the mixture solidifies into a hard white crystalline mass , consisting of a new iodide , for which , in accordance with the nomenclature which I have adopted , I propose the name iodide of methylodiethylamylammonium .
CC2 H3q C4 5CH C , H , N+C2 H3 I= 45 NI .
C4 HllJ C'4C5 ^C,10 , , 'H 113 KC0 HllJ The new iodide , like the preceding analogues , is extremely soluble in water , for ming a very bitter solution , from which it is reprecipitated by potassa in oily globules , which solidify again but slowly .
When digested with protoxide of silver , the iodide yields the oxide in form of a powerful alkaline solution , which forms crystalline salts with sulphuric , nitric and hydrochloric acid .
The hydrochlorate of methylodiethylamylammonium gives with bichloride of platinum a beautiful salt , by the analysis of which the composition of the substance was established .
0*2015 grm. of platinum-salt gave 00550 grm. of platinum .
The values corresponding to the formula rC2 H3CC4 H5 C20 H4 N CN Cl , Pt= H5 Cl2 CO1 Hll 376 are the following : Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Methylodiethylamylammonium. .
15800 43'50 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... ... .
10650 29*33 1 equiv. of Platinum ... ... ... 98'68 27-17 27'29 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... 363'18 100-00 ACTION OF HEAT UPON OXIDE OF METHYLODIETHYLAMYLAMMONIUM .
When submitted to distillation this compound is decomposed like the analogous substances , the product being water , pure olefiant gas , which was identified as formerly , and a very remarkable nitrile-base , containing the three different alcohol-radicals , an ammonia , in fact , in which the first equiv. of hydrogen is replaced by methyl , the second by ethyl , the third by anyl , and which receives the name methylethylamylamine .
C2 H3 C4 H15 NO , HO=2HO+ C4 H N+CH4 H4 H5 .
H CIO Hll 10 Hll This reaction shows that ethyl yields its place even to methyl , a fact which could not have been anticipated from analogy , methyl occupying a lower position than ethyl in the system .
The above deportment is moleover remarkable , when considered in another point of view .
Thte elimination of methyl in the case under examination would have given rise to the formation of methylene* C2 H2 , a substance the existence of which is still very problematical .
Methylethylamylamine is a transparent oil of a fragrant odour and an analogous taste .
Both these properties are much more marked than those of diethylamylamine , which it resembles in most respects .
It is somewhat more soluble in water than the latter , and of a more decided alkaline character .
When dried over potassa and rectified , the new base boils constantly at 135 ? .
Hence its boiling-point is 154-135-19 ?
lower than that of diethylamylamine , a difference which is in perfect accordance with H. KoPP 's rule .
Methylethylamylamine dissolves but slowly in the acids , forming salts which resemble those of the diethylamylated bases .
The hydrochlorate gives with bichloride of platinum a beautiful double salt , which is extremely soluble in water .
It is usually precipitated on mixing the highly concentrated solutions , or on evaporating the mixture , in oily globules of a deep orange-yellow , which gradually solidify into magnificent needles .
On analysis 0*4155 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'1212 grm. of platinum .
The formula C16 Hl sN , H Cl , PCH Pt C H , H Pt LCio HNll requires Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Hydrochlorate of Methylethylamylamine 165*50 49'38 2 equivs. of Chlorine ... .
71'00 21-18 1 equiv. of Platinum ... ... ... 98'68 29'44 29'36 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... ... .
335'18 100'00 In the preceding experiments , the radicals of the alcohols C , H+2 02 have been exclusively used as replacing materials .
However , as might have been expected , nitrile-bases containing a radical which is not homologous but only analogous to the two others , exhibit exactly the same deportment when submitted to the action of iodide of methyl , of ethyl or of amyl .
In order to establish this point , I had to return once more to the aniline-series .
ACTION OF IODIDE OF ETHYL UPON DIETHYLANILINE .
In my former paper* I have recorded a few experiments on the action of bromide of ethyl upon diethylaniline .
The results , unintelligible to me at that period , are now perfectly clear .
I have since repeated these reactions , substituting the iodide for the bromide on account of its more prompt action .
Diethylaniline is perfectly soluble in iodide of ethyl ; on exposing the mixture , sealed in tubes , to the temperature of boiling water , the liquid column gradually separates into two layers , the lower one increasing in bulk with the time of exposure , and solidifying on cooling into a semisolid crystalline mass .
The reaction is terminated , when , after half a day 's ebullition , the volume of the lower layer , which is the new iodide in the fused state , ceases to increase .
The mixture is now distilled with water in order to separate an excess of either diethylaniline or iodide of ethyl , when a strongly acid solution of iodide of phenylotriethylammonium is obtained , which usually contains a small quantity of hydriodate of diethylaniline , as may be inferred from the oily precipitate produced in the solution by potassa , which does not redissolve on addition of more water .
Digestion with protoxide of silver separates the two bases , one of which , diethylaniline , being insoluble in water , remains mixed with the oxide and iodide of silver ; the other , the oxide of phenylotriethylammonium , forming a powerfully alkaline solution of a strongly bitter taste .
After having ascertained by treatment with ether that the solution did not retain a trace of diethylaniline , it was saturated with hydrochloric acid and mixed with bichloride of platinum , when at once a pale-yellow , apparently amorphous precipitate was thrown down , which was scarcely soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol and ether .
0'4055 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0*1045 grm. of platinum .
To the formula rC4 H5 C24 H20 N Cl , Pt C12= 4 H5N Cl , Pt C2 1^4 H11 LC12 H correspond the following values : Theory .
Experiment .
f. 1 equiv. of Phenylotriethylammonium. .
178'00 46'45 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... ... ..10650 27*80 1 equiv. of Platinum ... ... 98'68 25-75 25.77 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... ... 383'18 100'00 I have not examined any farther the compounds of this base ; I have only ascertained that the sulphate , nitrate , oxalate and hydrochlorate crystallize , although with difficulty .
When oxide of phenylotriethylammonium is submitted to the action of heat , it yields , as might have been expected , water , olefiant gas and diethylophenylamine ( diethylaniline ) .
C4 HI I C4 H !
C4 H5.NO , HO=2HO-+{-C4H H5 H4 H5 C12H 5J IC 12 5 The olefiant gas was identified by the conversion into the bromine-compound , the diethylaniline by the analysis of the characteristic platinum-salt .
0'2965 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0820 grm. of platinum .
This corresponds to 27'65 per cent. of platinum .
The formula fC4 H5 C20 H1 N , H C1 , Pt ClC4 H5 N , HCI , Pt C2 C12 H5J requires 27'78 per cent. of platinum .
ACTION OF IODIDE OF METHYL UPON ETHYLAMYLANILINE .
Ethylamylaniline , which I formerly obtained by the action of bromide of amyl upon ethylaniline , or of bromide of ethyl upon amylaniline , may be formed with the same , or greater facility , by exposing the latter base to iodide of ethyl .
When submitted to the action of iodide of methyl at the temperature of boiling water for three or four days , ethylamylaniline exhibits all the phenomena described in the preceding paragraph .
The lower layer , which solidifies , is a mixture of hydriodate of ethylamylaniline and iodide of methylethylamylophenylammonium .
Sit venia verbo !
C4 H5 FC2 H3 C10 Hn N+C H3 I= C4 H5 NI .
C12 H5 ^ C1 ?
Hi l CC12 H5 The corresponding oxide is obtained as the preceding one , namely , by treating the clear solution of the two iodine-compounds , previously freed by ebullition from an excess of iodide of methyl , or ethylamylaniline , with protoxide of silver , when unchanged ethylamylaniline and the base with the long name separate .
The latter remaining in solution ( and forming a very bitter liquid of a strongly alkaline reaction ) , whilst the former is insoluble , there was no difficulty in obtaining a pure platinumsalt whereby to prove the composition of the compound in question .
This salt is a pale-yellow amorphous precipitate , very slightly soluble in water .
On analysis0'4335 grm. of the platinum-salt gave 0,1045 grm. of the platinum .
I collate the percentage number corresponding to this result with the theoretical value of the formulaC2 H3 C4 H5 C28 H24 N C1 , Pt C2 C4 H , N Cl , Pt C12 .
C12 H5 J Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Methylethylamylophenylammnonium. .
206'00 50*01 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... ... ... . .
106*50 26'00 1 equiv. of Platinun ... ... ... . .
98'68 23'99 24 11 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... ... .
411'18 100'00 This compound is certainly remarkable for the diversity of its components , for it contains the radicals of not less than four different alcohols !
As to the action of heat upon the oxide under examination , there could be scarcely any doubt after the result of the preceding investigation .
Still I have established by experiment that in this reaction olefiant gas is eliminated , whilst a new nitrile-base , containing methyl , amyl and phenyl , is generated .
C2 H31 CH C4 H51 N O , H 0=2H O+ CO1 H11 N+C4 H4 C12 H ll2 C12 H5 j C12 H5 J 380 Methylamylophenylamine is an oil of an odour similar to that of amylaniline ; it is almost insoluble in water : I have not prepared enough of this compound to determine the boiling-point , which at all events is very high .
It forms a crystalline platinum-salt , whose analysis was sufficient to establish its composition .
0'3795 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0866 grm. of platinum .
The formula C2H3 C24 H19N , II Cl , Pt CI2=i C1o Hn C , Pt CI2 C C12 H5 , requires the following values : Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Hydrochlorate of Methylamylaniline .
213'5 55-72 2 equivs. of Chlorine ... ... ... 71'0 18'53 1 equiv. of Platinum ... 98'68 25 25'81 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... ... 383'18 100-00 The paragraphs now following are devoted to a brief account of several bases belonging to the methyland amyl-series .
Bases of the Methyl-series .
The experiments described under this head were originally undertaken by my fr'iend Captain REYNOLDS , who by many occupations unfortunately was prevented from continuing the investigation , so that I am obliged to take alone the responsibility of the following statements .
ACTION OF AMMONIA UPON IODIDE OF .
METHYL .
If iodide of methyl be treated with a concentrated aqueous solution of ammonia , the former is rapidly dissolved , the completion of the reaction being indicated by the liquid assuming a yellowish tint .
On opening the boiler-tube the liquid is found to be strongly acid , and to contain not less than five different iodides , namelyH Iodide of Ammonium ... Iodide of Methylammonium ... ... . .
H 1N I. IC H33 LC2 H3J Iodide of Dimnethylammonium ... H NI .
C2 H3j C2H3 MDCCCLI.~~~~~~~ 33D MDOCCLI .
3 D Iodide of Trimethylammonium 3NI .
C2 H3J C2 HSN r^ HT Iodide of Tetramethylammoniun .
2 H13 I c2 H3J Of these five compounds , the first and the last are formed in considerable excess .
Of the remainder I have as yet only been able to establish the presence of the iodide of methylammonium by numbers .
The two others I have not as yet obtained in sufficiently large quantity and of the requisite purity .
The solution of this mixture deposits , on cooling , magnificent dazzling-white hard flat needles , sometimes of an inch in length , which are very difficultly soluble in cold water , and may be obtained in the state of purity by washing with cold and recrystallizing from boiling water .
These crystals are the iodide of tetramethylammonium , all the other salts remaining in the mother-liquor , which rapidly turns brown on exposure to the atmosphere .
The facility with which ammonia acts upon iodide of methyl , renders it unnecessary to perform the process at a high temperature .
The reaction is accomplished after some days , even at the common temperature , if an alcoholic solution be employed , after some hours , a considerable amount of heat being disengaged .
Iodide of Tetramethylammonium .
This substance possesses the family-features of the group .
It is soluble in water , but far less so than the corresponding ethyl-compound , forming a perfectly neutral solution of an extremely bitter taste .
It is almost insoluble in absolute alcohol , insoluble in ether .
Like the ethyl-compounds , this salt is far less soluble in potassa than in pure water .
On analysis the following results were obtained : I. 0'4753 grinm of iodide gave 0-5519 grm. of iodide of silver .
II .
0'4256 grm. of iodide gave 0'4973 grm. of iodide of silver .
Iodine .
The formula Percentage .
I I. II ... ... .
62'75 63'14 C2 H3 Cs H12 N2C2 NI 13 C211 382 ' requires the following values : Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Tetramethylammonium. .
74'0 36*75 1 equiv. of Iodine ... . .
127,1 63'25 62'94 1 equiv. of Iodine-compound ... 201'1 100*00 The action of protoxide of silver upon the iodine-compound is perfectly analogous to that which it exerts upon the ethyl-body .
The oxide of tetramethylammonium thus liberated is endowed with scarcely less marked properties than the ethyl-base .
When evaporated over sulphuric acid in vacuo , it likewise dries up to a crystalline mass , attracting moisture and carbonic acid with the greatest avidity ; saturated with acids , it yields crystallizable salts .
I have prepared the sulphate , oxalate , nitrate and chloride ; the nitrate especially crystallizes well , in long brilliant needles .
The chloride yields with bichloride of platinum a magnificent double salt , which is less insoluble than the corresponding salt in the ethyl-series ; it crystallizes in perfectly regular octohedrons of a deep orange colour .
When recrystallized from boiling water , this salt exhibits the peculiarity to which I have alluded previously ( see p. 374 ) , of yielding a smaller percentage of platinum .
Analysis I. was made with the precipitated , analysis II .
and III .
with the recrystallized salt .
I. 0'2695 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0950 grm. of platinum .
II .
0'1925 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0670 grm. of platinum .
III .
0'3420 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'1190 grm. of platinum .
Percentage .
' , I I. II .
IIM .
Platinum ... .
35'21 34'86 34*79 Values corresponding to the formula : C2 H3 C8 H12 N Cl , Pt C12= c2 H3 N Cl , Pt C12 LC2 H3j Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Tetramethylammonium..7400 26'50 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... 106'50 38*15 1 equiv. of Platinum ... . .
9868 3535 35'21 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... 279'18 100'00 I was exceedingly desirous to submit this oxide to the action of heat ; for this process , provided the methyl-base followed the deportment of its ethyl-fellow , promised to give me the long-desired methylene C2 H2 .
Oxide of tetramethylammonium , when heated violently , intumesces , and is completely volatilized ; the product of the distil3D2 383 lation is an extremely volatile and powerfully alkaline liquid ; but .
strange to say , during the whole process not a trace of gas is disengaged .
I have repeatedly performed the experiment with exactly the same result .
Here then we meet with a new node of decomposition , and unless I am much mistaken , with a decomposition of a very peculiar character .
I have made a few experiments with the basic liquid disengaged , but as I have not as yet arrived at perfectly definite results , I refrain from entering into farther details .
The mother-liquor of iodide of tetramethylammonium , which contains chiefly iodide of ammonium , together with small quantities of the intermediate iodides , yields all the corresponding bases by distillation with potassa .
However , the aminonia prevails in the distillate to such an extent , that the attempt to effect a separation would have been hopeless .
It was only by precipitating the liquid with bichloride of platinum , and separating the more soluble from the less soluble salts , that I succeeded in obtaining evidence of the presence of the intermediate bases .
As yet I have been able to prepare only the methylamine-salt in a state of tolerable purity , of which I subjoin the analysis .
0*1415 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0590 grm.=41'69 per cent. of platinum .
The formula 2 5 , HCl , PtCl HN HCI PtCL 2 H4 CHN HC5 N , H C1 , Pt CC2 , C , Pt 2 requires 41*61 per cent. of platIinum .
, , Bases of the Amyl-Series .
While I was engaged with the investigation of the lower ethyl-bases , Messrs. WILLIAM and ALFRED BENNETT , who at that period were studying in the Laboratory of the College of Chemistry , undertook , at my request , the examination of the corresponding bodies in the amyl-series .
Prevented from completing their researches by leaving London , these gentlemen have placed their results at my disposal , which I have verified in etery respect , and which I subjoin , together with a series of experiments of my own , especially on the oxide of tetramylammonium .
Amylamine .
Ammonia acts but very slowly upon iodide of amyl , and the product of the reaction contains , as in the methyl-series , not less than five iodides .
Among these the iodides of amylammonium and diamylammonium are present in the smallest quantity .
The preparation of amylamine succeeds much better according to the process of M. WURTZ , namely , by submitting cyanate of amyl to the action of hydrate of potassa .
384 Diamylamine .
The formation of diamylamine takes place even in the cold , although slowly .
At the temperature of boiling water , a mixture of amylamine and bromide of amyl is rapidly converted into a beautiful white crystalline mass of hydrobromate of diamylamine , which is purified , and decomposed in the usual manner .
When purified , diamylarmine is a light oily substance , very little soluble in water , to which it imparts , however , an alkaline reaction .
Its aromatic odour is peculiar , not unpleasant , and reminds us of amylamine ; its taste hot and pungent ; it boils at about 170 ? .
From want of pure material , the boiling-point could not be determined with accuracy .
Diamylamine forms very beautiful crystalline salts with the acids , which are all rather insoluble in water .
The hydrochlorate is almost insoluble in cold water , but may be recrystallized from boiling water .
This solution yields with bichloride of platinum a double salt , which is rather soluble , and separates frequently , in the first instance , in the form of oily drops , which become gradually crystalline .
It was by the analysis of these two salts that the composition of diamylamine was fixed .
0'2545 grm. of hydrochlorate gave 0*1852 grm. of chloride of silver .
The formula H1 C20 H23 N , H C1=C1I Hl N , H Cl C Clo HI , requires the following values : Theory .
Experiment .
A ir 1 equiv. of Diamylamine ... 157'0 8114 1 equiv. of Hydrochloric Acid. .
36'5 18'86 18*51 1 equiv. of Hydrochlorate of Diamylamine .
193'5 100'00 These numbers show that the hydrochlorate employed was not perfectly pure ; however , the two following platinum-salts leave no doubt respecting the base under examination .
I. 0'1634 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0444 grm. of platinum .
II .
0'1805 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0*0488 grm. of platinum .
Percentage .
1 .
II .
Platinum ... ... 27'17 27'04 The following theoretical values correspond to the formula HH C20 H2 N , H Cl , Pt C12= Co0 H1 N , H CJ , Pt CI2 .
Clo HnJ Theory .
Experiment .
r1 equiv. of Hydrochlorate of Diamylamine .
193'50 53'29 2 equivs. of Chlorine ... ... 7 100 19'54 1 equiv. of Platinum ... 98'68 27'17 27'10 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... ... .
363-18 100'00 ACTION OF BROMIDE OF AMYL UPON DIAMYLAMINE .
Triamylamine .
This base arises from diamylamine in the same manner as the latter from amylamine .
It is moreover obtained , and at once in a state of purity , by exposing oxide of tetramylammonium , which I shall describe presently , to a high temperature ; prepared by either way , this substance resembles in most of its physical and chemical characters diamylamine ; it boils however at a much higher temperature , namely , at 257 ? .
Its composition was fixed as that of diamylamine , by the analysis of the hydrochlorate and of the platinum-salt , the former being a very characteristic salt , which separates at once in nacreous plates on adding hydrochloric acid to the base , the latter being a viscid salt gradually solidifying to a crystalline mass .
0'1022 grm. of the hydrochlorate gave 0'0551 grm. of chloride of silver .
The formula rCio Hll C30 H33 N , H Cl= CIo Hl N , H Cl Clo HlJ requires the following values : Theory .
Experiment .
-A 1 equiv. of Triamylamine. .
227'00 86 15 1 equiv. of Hydrochloric Acid ... 3650 13'85 13-73 1 equiv. of Hydrochlorate of Triamylamine .
263'50 100'00 The following platinum-determinations were made with three different salts : I , and II .
were prepared with triamylamine , obtained by the action of bromide of amyl upon diamylamine ; salt III .
was made with the base resulting from the decomposition of oxide of tetramylammonium .
I. 0-3270 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0750 grm. of platinum .
II .
0'2182 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0500 grm. of platinum .
III .
0-3795 grm. of platinum-salt gave 0'0860 grm. of platinum .
Percentage .
I. II .
III .
Platinum ... .
22'90 22*91 22'66 The theoretical values of the formula ( C10 HIll C30 H33 N , H Cl , Pt C12= Co1 Hl fN , H Cl , Pt C12 C10 H1J are as follows : Theory .
Experiment .
1 equiv. of Hydrochlorate of Triamylamine .
263'50 60*82 2 equivs. of Chlorine ... ... .
71 00 16'40 1 equiv. of Platinum ... ... 98'68 22'78 22'82 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... ... .
43318 10000 ACTION OF IODIDE OF AMYL UPON AMYLAMINE AND UPON AMMONIA .
Oxide of Tetramylammonium .
A mixture of triarnylamine and iodide of amyl solidifies after two or three days ' ebullition to a solid , somewhat fat-like mass of iodide of tetramylammonium .
A similar effect is produced by boiling an excess of iodide of amyl with a concentrated solution of ammonia .
This reaction , however , takes place very slowly ; in fact , the diminution of affinities chlaracterizing the amyl-compounds in general was in none of these cases more marked .
After two or three days ' ebullition the volume of the ether appeared scarcely diminished ; but then a gradual change occurred , the heavy amyl-compound rising and floating upon the solution of the new iodide which was formed .
After a fortnight 's ebullition the aqueous layer began to solidify , when allowed to cool ; but even after keeping the mixture for a period of three weeks in ebullition , on opening the boiler-tube the reaction was found to be far from complete .
The semi-solid mixture thus obtained was subjected to distillation , first alone , in , order to recover the iodide of amyl not acted upon ; then with potassa , to separate ammonia and the lower amyl-bases .
The alkaline liquid contained a small quantity of iodide of tetramylammonium in solution , which crystallized on cooling in fat-like leaves ; the larger quantity , however , of this substance collected at the bottom of the vessel in form of a heavy oil , which solidified on cooling to a hard mass of the appearance of stearin .
The new iodide resembles in its general properties the corresponding compounds I have previously described .
Like them it is soluble , but only with difficulty , in water , forming a most intensely bitter liquid , and reprecipitated from this solution in the crystalline form by the addition of the alkalies .
On drying , the iodide assumes a slightly yellowish tint .
0-3890 grm. of the iodide gave 0'2130 grm. of iodide of silver .
387 The theoretical values of the formula Clo Hl1 C40 H44 NI =C H11 NI IO111 H -Clo HI , are as follows : Theory .
Experiment .
** ... ** .
, A % .
1 equiv. of Tetramylammonium. .
2980 702 11 1 equiv. of Iodine ... ... 127'1 29-89 29-60 1 equiv. of Iodide ... ... . .
425'1 100'00 On boiling the iodide with protoxide of silver , an alkaline , very bitter solution of the oxide of tetramylammonium is obtained .
This substance is evidently far less soluble in water than the corresponding bases in the methyland ethyl-series .
It would almost appear as if this compound stood to the methyland ethyl-bases as an alkaline earth does to potassa and soda .
On adding potassa to a solution of oxide of tetramylamnmonium , the base rises in the form of an oily layer on the surface of the liquid .
The same separation is observed when the solution is much evaporated ; in the latter case the oily layer gradually solidifies .
On allowing a moderately concentrated solution of this base to stand for some-time in a vessel in which it is protected from carbonic acid , magnificent perfectly definite crystals , sometimes an inch in length and in thickness , are deposited ; they are but moderately deliquescent , and attract but , slowly carbonic acid from the air .
These crystals are the hydrate of tetramylammonium , containing a certain amount of water of crystallization .
I have not yet been able to determine the number of equivalents .
On heating these crystals , they fuse in their water of crystallization , and yield on evaporation in the water-bath a viscid semi-solid transparent mass , which is the hydrated oxide of tetramylammonium , Clo0 Hll Clo Hll c10 HnJ -This substance is extremely deliquescent , and opposes to an ordinary analysis the same obstacles which I met with in the case of tetrethylammonium .
I succeeded , however , in the following manner , in determining with tolerable accuracy the composition of this mass .
Having observed that this oxide is far less easily decomposed by heat than the corresponding ethyl-compound , I endeavoured to determine the state of hydration in which the oxide remained , by decomposing a known quantity of the iodide with protoxide of silver , and evaporating the solution thus obtained in a glass vessel , through which a current of air previously dried and decarbonated by potassa 388 was passed at the temperature of boiling water .
On weighing the residue , the amount of water retained by the oxide was given .
The results obtained in this way , although not perfectly accurate on account of the oxide yielding a small quantity of triamylamine even at 100 ?
, before the last traces of water of crystallization are expelled , nevertheless leave but little doubt respecting the nature of the residue .
In an experiment of this kind 1'0610 grm. of iodide of tetramylammonium left 0'8000 grin .
of residue .
This corresponds to 75'43 per cent. ; if the viscid residue had been the pure monohydrated oxide I should have found 74'10 per cent. I hope to repeat this experimeent at a lower temperature , and also to determine the amount of water of crystallization in the crystallized compound ; the latter is soon reproduced on adding again a moderate quantity of water to the viscid hydrate .
I have just now mentioned that the oxide , when heated in the water-bath , yields a small quantity of triamylamine .
At a higher temperature this reaction proceeds with perfect regularity ; an inflammable carbohydrlogen being disengaged , together with the base .
There can be scarcely any doubt that the former is amylene .
This substance boils at a rathet low temperature , 39 ?
, and was therefore partly collected as gas .
Another portion however dissolved in the triamylanine , from which it was expelled by ebullition after the base had been fixed by addition of hydrochloric acid .
The analysis of the triamylamine obtained in this reaction has been mentioned at page 386 .
Hence the decomposition of oxide of tetramylammonium is perfectly analogous to that of its analogues in the ethyl-series , and is represented by the equation C0 H1NO , HO=2HO+ Clo H , N+CClo Hlo .
Clo Hll 1NO HOH C10 IIll C10 H1J Oxide of tetramylammonium is distinguished by forming crystalline salts of remarkable beauty .
The sulphate crystallizes in long hair-like filaments , the nitrate in needles , the oxalate in splendid large perfectly defined plates , of a very bitter taste , and extremely deliquescent .
The chloride crystallizes in leaves with palmlike ramifications ; it is likewise deliquescent , but less so than the preceding salt .
The solution of the chloride yields with bichloride of platinum a pale-yellow curdy precipitate , which gradually solidifies into beautiful orange-yellow needles .
On analysis the following results were obtained : 0'2420 grin .
of platinum-salt gave 0'0475 grin .
of platinum .
The theoretical numbers of the formula [ Clo Hll C40 H44 N Cl , Pt C12= i C10 Hll N Cl , Pt Cl2 CDCCCo HI .
are as follows : Theory .
Experiment .
r - , 1 equiv. of Tetramylammonium ... 2980 59'21 3 equivs. of Chlorine ... .
106'5 2119 -1 equiv. of Platinum ... . .
98*68 19'60 19'63 1 equiv. of Platinum-salt ... 503'18 100-00 The analysis of the tetramylammonium-salt concludes the experimental part of this paper ; and here I cannot but make mention publicly of the valuable assistance which Mr. JAMES S. BRAZIER , Senior Assistant in the Royal College of Chemistry , has given me during the prosecution of these inqui , ries .
I thankfully acknowledge the aid of this able young chemist , whose experimental skill is equalled by his love of science .
Before passing on to some general considerations , which the experiments detailed in the preceding paper suggest , it appears to be desirable to condense the whole of the materials into a synoptical form .
The appended Table requires no commentary ; it contains the formulae of the alkaloids described in this and the preceding memoir , exhibiting in a clear light the arrangement of the molecules composing them , and the manner in which the various compounds are interchained , Aniline ( Phenylamine ) N. .
}HH C12 H5 Ethylaniline ( Ethylophenylamine ) Methylaniline ( Methylophenylamine ) Amylaniline ( Amylophenylamine ) Chloraniline ( Chlorophenylamine Bromaniline ( Bromophenylamine , Ammoniane ) N ( Amine ) [ H N. Nitraniline ( Nitrophenylamine ) Ethylamine ( Ethylammonia ) HlH)C ( H4 N. 12 ci / j fHH [ C12 ( Br/ J { H , I { H N. H JN .
C4 CH5 J Ethylochloraniline f ( Ethylochlorophenylamine ) Ethylobromaniline ( Ethylobromophenylamine ) Ethylonitraniline Jf ( Ethylonitrophenylamine ) t Diethylamine ( Diethylammonia ) L{rH C4 H5 C,2 H5 H C2 Hs C12 H5 fC H Co Hl , C1 H , .
Diethylaniline ( Diethylophenylamine ) N. }N .
H)C( HsE 1N ' C4 H5 N C12 N. HH H. C4 H5 1N .
C4 H5 C04 H , C4 H , N. C12 H5 Methylethylaniline r02H3 ( Methylethylophenylamine ) C4 H5 N. C12 Hs5 Diamylaniline c010 H11 N ( Diamylophenylamine ) 100 H11 N C12 H5 J Ethylamylaniline ( 04 H1 ( Ethylamylophenylamine ) I1 Hl H ( 0 H , H LC , oH~l Methylamylaniline 1 H1 , N. ( Methylamylophenylamine ) C012 H5 LC , o Hi , N C4 H5 Diethylochloraniline JC4 Hh ( N ( Diethylochlorophenylamine)l0 ( C H4 12HiC .
Triethylamine ( Triethylammonia ) Diethylamylamine ( Diethylamylammonia ) H Methylamine H1 Dimethylamine ( Methylammonia ) 1 0H }N .
( Dimethylammonia ) Amylamine ( Amylammonia ) { HH cIo H1 Diamylamine I ( Diamylammonia ) H C , H3 C , H3 C4 H5 i C , H , N. C4 Hs J fC4 Hs ] C4 H IN .
Clo HIJ Methylethylamylamine I2 H3 ( Methylethylamylammonia ) C H5 NL 010 H.ii N Trimethylamine ( Trimethylammonia ) JH1 Triamylamine 10o 11H N. ( Triamylammonia ) Co10 HI , H } H3 Cio H , N. C , o H , lJ ( C4 H , Oxide of TriethylophenylC4 H5 N , HO .
ammonium C4 H5 lCl , H5J rC2 H3 , Oxide of MethylethylC4 H5 NO , HO amylophenylammonium CIo H , I C12 H5 fC4 H5 Oxide of Tetrethylammo-j C. Hs .
N H 04 H , J monium C4 H. IC,4 H HOJ ( C4 H5 Oxide of TriethylomethylamC4 H NOHO monium 104 H , CGo H , J C4 H3 Oxide of DiethylomethylC4 H5 NO HO .
amylammonium 1CH IC H , ,J Oxide of DiethylomethylamC H3 NO , HO .
amylammonium ]C4 H5 , HO .
C2 Ha Oxide of Tetramethylam-1 C2 H No , HO .
monium 1C H , j C2 , H , Ci , o H , , Oxide of TetramylammoClo Hl , NO , HO .
nium Clo H,10 1111 010 HI , TYPE .
AMIDOGEN-BASES .
ANALOGUES OF OXIDE OF AMMONIUM .
iC2 C , tc The preceding researches show that the action of the bromides and iodides of the alcohol-radicals upon ammonia , gives rise to the formation of not less than four distinct groups of organic bases .
Of these , the members of three groups , corresponding to ammonia ( H3 N ) , are volatile , while those of the fourth , corresponding to oxide of ammonium ( H4 N 0 ) , cannot be volatilized without decomposition .
The facility with which the members of this last class arise from those of the preceding ones , and the readiness with which their reconversion is effected , renders the former group as it were the connecting link between the volatile and the non-volatile organic alkaloids .
I am inclined to attach some importance to the latter point ; for the acquisition of a general method , by means of which we may rise from the volatile to the non-volatile bases , is not unlikely to pave the way to the artificial production of the fixed native alkaloids , whose constitution is still shrouded in darkness .
We may here remirember that a very considerable number of thesefixed native alkaloids yield volatile organic bases when submitted to the action of heat or of potassa , -that is under precisely those conditions under which the new ammnonium-compounds , which I have described in this paper , are converted into conjugate ammonias .
Thus quinine , cinchonine , strychnine , and pelosine yield among their products of decomposition leucoline ( chinoline ) , while piperine gives picoline ( ?
) , and morphine , caffeine , codeine and narcotine have actually been converted into alcohol-bases , the former yielding methylamine , the latter two propylamine* .
I readily admit that those processes are by no means so simple as the passage of oxide of tetrethylammlonium into triethylamine , several processes of transfbrmnation being in most of these cases accomplished side by side .
A certain analogy , however , cannot possibly be denied , although , on account of the more complicated formulte of the native bases , it cannot as yet be traced in simple equations .
In some instances the connection even now appears almost palpable .
If we compare the formulae of quinine and of leucoline , the volatile base derived from its destruction , we are surprised to find that these substances exhibit the same elementary difference which we observe between oxide of tetramnethylammtonium and methylamine .
Hs N Quinine .
Leucoline .
C8 H13 N O2-C2 H4 02=C6 Hg N Hydrated oxide Trimethylof Tetramethylamine .
ammonium .
Accordingly , we might expect that the action of iodide of methyl upon leucoline , and the subsequent decomposition of the iodide produced by means of protoxide of silver , would enable us to reconvert leucoline in this manner into quinine .
This metamorphosis would be the more interesting , as it would open a source for the artificial production of quinine ; leucoline being , as is well known , contained in considerable quantity in the basic portion of coal-tar naphtha .
It may be stated here that leucoline , which is a substance remarkable for its antipathy to the crystalline form , when submitted to the action of iodide of methyl , solidifies at once into a splendid mass of crystals of a new iodide* , which in fact resembles in its outward appearance hydriodate of quinine , and which is still under examination .
I am , however , by no means sanguine as to the result of this experiment , for the above play of formulae rests as yet on a very precarious foundation ; neither the formula of quinine tior that of leucoline being established beyond a doubt .
Nevertheless , I intend to complete this investigation , because even if no other result is obtained , yet by means of this process new data for ultimately fixing the formulae of quinine and leucoline may be found .
In conclusion , it may not be out of place to consider how far the preceding researches affect the received views regarding the constitution of the ammoniasalts .
Without reproducing all the arguments brought forward by the supporters of the various theories , we may remember that , irrespectively of the imrpossibility of isolating ammonium itself , the instability of its oxide has been adduced as one of the most important objections against the assumption of the amllmoniuim-theory as originally suggested by AMPBRE , and subsequently elaborated by BERZELIus .
It desetrves to be noticed that BERZELIUS expressly states that he considers the solution of armmonia-gas in water as a solution of the hydrated oxide of amnmonium .
This idea , which is but a logical conclusion from the generalization of the facts , is discountenanced to a certain extent by the chemical and physical character of this solution .
Everybody knows that , even at the commton temperature , this liquid splits again into water and ammonia , while it still exhibits the character of the latter in so marked a manner , as almost to preclude the idea that it had undergone as essential a change as the transformation into oxide of amnmonium n ecessarily must be .
Under these circumstances , some interest is attached to the discovery of a series of conpound bases , corresponding in their composition to hydrated oxide of ammonium , from which they differ only by containing methyl , ethyl and amyl in the place of hydrogen , and exhibiting a deportment which agrees much better with the anticipated character of such compounds as suggested by analogy .
Here we find a very marked difference between the properties of the compound ammonia , and those of the ammonium-oxide belonging to it ; in the latter , we observe no longer any feature which could possibly betray the presence of the former ; all their habits , volatility , odour , taste , &amp;c. are totally changed ; there is a difference between the two groups which is not inferior to that between ammonia and potassa .
The solutions of the new oxides may be boiled for hours without the slightest quantity of the corresponding ammonia being disengaged ; several of these oxides , containing more or less water of constitution or crystallization , may actually be obtained in the dry state .
It is evident that the arguments mentioned above , as adduced in refutation of the ammonium-theory , cannot well be raised against the compound ammoniurns .
But who could deny the parallelism of these substances with the Berzelian type , -with the oxide of ammonium ?
Again , many have found it difficult to conceive , that in the combination of animmnonia with hydrochloric or hydrobromic acid , the hydrogen of the latter should leave the chlorine and bromine , for which it is known to possess so powerful an affinity , in order to unite with ammonia converting it into ammonium .
And they were the less inclined to admit of such a disposition of the elements , as every day 's experience showed that the alleged chloride or bromide of ammonium was incapable of exchanging oxygen for chlorine or bromine , without losing the additional equivalent of hydrogen again in the form of water .
In other terms , the decomposition of sal-ammoniac , by lime , into chloride of calcium , ammonia-gas and water , induced them to consider this salt as a compound of ammonia and hydrochloric acid ; for in the conception of the ammoniurn-theory we should have to assume in this decomposition two consecutive changes , the transformation of the chloride into oxide , and the subsequent splitting of the latter into ammoniacal gas and water .
I readily admit that the latter view is less simple , but I amr inclined to think that this slight inconvenience is altogiether overruled by the general advantages of the ammoniurntheory , especially for the purposes of instruction , by the facility with which it accounts for all phenomena of transposition and substitution , and by the simple explanation it gives of the isomorphism of the potassiumand ammonium-compounds , which will always be the firmest foundation of this theory .
On the other hand , we have to inquire which of the two views comes nearest to truth , and here a comparative consideration of the deportment exhibited by the compound ammoniums may be of some interest .
In many respects their properties are more clearly pronounced ; and their behaviour is explicit and unequivocal in those very points in which the typical ammonium leaves room for speculation .
In the combination of triethylamine with bromide or iodide of ethyl , it is no longer a matter of doubt whether the ethyl leaves the iodine in order to unite more intimately with the triethylamine , for we see that 394 the new iodide thus produced is capable of exchanging its iodine for oxygen without the newly-formed oxide suffering immediate decomposition , as is the case with oxide of ammonium .
On the contrary , we find this new oxide endowed with remarkable stability ; although under the influence of heat it is liable to the same change which befalls the oxide of ammonium , its corresponding ammonia being reproduced .
Here then , in the decomposition of iodide of triethylammonium by metallic oxides , we are obliged by irresistible evidence to acknowledge those very two stages , the assumption of which in the analogous change of iodide of ammonium appeared to us deficient in simplicity and probability .
The conception of ammonium does not in any way imply the notion that the different hydrogen-atoms united with nitrogen in the molecule of the compound metal , retain their position in the molecular system with equal persistency .
We are forced by unequivocal facts to admit that the fourth atom of hydrogen is in a peculiar state of mobility , and it is on the facility with which this fourth atom is dislodged from its position that one of the foundations of the ammonia-theory rests .
In the compound ammoniums the mobility of the fourth atom of hydrogen , or the hydrocarbon replacing it , still prevails , although less so than in the type itself .
The decomposition of the ammonium-bases under the influence of heat is particularly instructive in this respect ; oxide of tetrethylammonium loses the fourth equivalent of ethyl in the form of olefiant gas and water ; and this deportment might be graphically indicated by writing the formula of this compound in accordance with the ammonia-theory , namely , thusC4 H5 C H5 NN , C4 H5 0 .
C4 H5J The iodide accordingly would be represented by the formula C4 H5 C4 H5N C4 H I , C4 HJ an expression which is moreover in perfect harmony with the mode in which this compound is produced , namely , by the direct union of iodide of ethyl.with triethylamine .
But now we combine the triethylamine with iodide of amyl , whereby the iodide C4 H5 N , C10 Hl I C4 HJ is formed , which , as we have seen in the preceding pages , may be converted without difficulty into the corresponding oxide ; this oxide however cannot possibly be considered as C4 H15 C4 H5 N , C1o Hll 0 , C4 H5J '95 for the disengagement of olefiant gas under the influence of heat proves to us that it is an ethyl-atom which in ttis compound occupies the supplemental position , if I may so call it , as represented in the formula C4 H C4 H5 N , C4 H 50 , C , o HaJ and that the iodide , which is not likely to differ in its constitution from the oxide , has likewise to be represented by the formula C4 H5 CH5 N , C4 H5 .
Clo Hn , J C10 LI The preceding considerations clearly show , that , whatever the actual disposition of the molecules in ammonium or its congeners may be , the atoms re-arrange themselves whenever the fourth equivalent of hydrogen , or of its substitute , joins the compound .
This re-arrangement , so evident in the ammonium-bases , containing various hydrocarbons , may be traced moreover in the lower ethyl-bases in a very obvious manner .
For as long as there is any basic hydrogen present in the ammonia-skeleton , this hydrogen assumes what I have previously called the supplemental position , whenever the ammnonia passes into the state of ammonium by the accession of a radical .
Bromide of ethylammonium formed by the combination of ammonia with bromide of ethyl , when decomposed by a metallic oxide , yields ethylammonia , water and a metallic bromide , the oxide of ethylammonium formed in the .
first instance being decomposed like oxide of ammonium itself .
It is this very transposition which we are in the habit of representing by the equation H3 N+C4 115 Br=C4 H5 , H2 N , H Br .
In the preceding pages I have stated some of the reasons which induced me to adopt the idea of an ammonium for the new class of compounds which I have had the honour to place before the Royal Society in the present memoir .
I need scarcely mention , that such a step involves as a matter of necessity the assumption of a similar view for all the lower bases which form part of this investigation .
It would be inconsistent to speak any longer of hydrochlorate of ethylatnmine , of hydrobromate of diethylamine , &amp;c. ; these salts have henceforward to be called chloride of ethylammonium , bromide of diethylammonium , &amp;c. , these compounds being nothing but intermediate substitution-terms between the type and the last derivative .
On considering the various chlorides from this point of view , we arrive at the following series : Chloride of Ammonium ... ... H4 N C1 .
Chloride of Ethylammonium N Cl. 396 Chloride of Diethylammonium. .
( H)N Cl. ( C4 H5)2J Chloride of Triethylammonium ... .
{ HN Cl. ( C4 H)a Chloride of Tetrethylammonium ... .
( C4 H5)4 N CI .
The idea of an ammonium once adopted , we have to follow it out in as general a form as possible , and hence I perfectly agree with those chemists who consider the salts of REISET'S second base as compounds of the Platammonium ( Platosammonium ) H3}N X Pt J the ammoniosulphate of silver as sulphate of argentammonium , H3}N SO4 , and the ammoniochloride of copper as chloride of cuprammonium , Cu C1 .
But I would go farther and advocate an analogous constitution for a great number of mercury-compounds , which are now usually considered in a different way .
Sitlce the careful experiments of Sir ROBERT KANE have pointed out the true composition of the white precipitate , chemists are in the habit of viewing this substance as a compound of chloride and amide of mercury , Hg H2 N , Hg Cl ; it may be viewed with equal justice as chloride of dimercurammonium , 2 IN C1 Hg2}J and would correspond in this form to the chloride of diethylammonium ; dimercurammonium , intimately combined with protoxide of mercury , may be assumed in all the various salts of M. MILLON'S mercury-base .
It would be interesting experimentally to follow out in detail the analogy of the mercury-compounds with the series of ethyl bases .
Even now the materials at our disposal appear to point to the existence of the other terms .
In MITSCHERLICH'S garnet-octohedrons we might perceive a chloride of mercurammonium , H3 N Cl Hg C1 , while PLANTAMOUR'S nitride of mercury presents itself as trimercuramine , Hg3N ; and the red compound obtained by MITSCHERLTCH on heating the white precipitate , might be viewed as a combination of chloride of mercury with chloride of tetramercurammonium , Hg4 N Cl , Hg C1 .
The ammonium type may be traced even in a class of compounds which has hitherto been regarded in a perfectly different point of view .
I refer to the substances produced by the combination of metallic salts with more than one equivalent of amInonia .
Protochloride of platinum unites with two equivalents of ammonia , forming the chloride of REISET'S first base ; in the same manner , sulphate of copper , nitrate of silver , absorb both two equivalents of ammonia , the latter salt even three equivalents .
These substances , although containing 2 equlivs .
of nitrogen , may still be viewed as ammnonium-compounds , if we apply to them an interesting observation made by Professor GRAHAM , namely , that ammonia , wtlenever it joins a compound containing hydrogen , may be regarded as ammonium replacing 1 equiv. of hydrogen .
When viewed in this light , the substances above quoted would assume the following formulae : REISET'S first chloride ... .
Diammoniacal sulphate of copper .
Diammoniacal nitrate of silver .
Triammoniacal nitrate of silver { 112 l NCI lChloride of ammonioPt N CI .
( I- , N ) J platammonium .
{ IICu N Sulphanide of ammonioI(1 1 N)T4 N )cuprammonium .
( H4 N)2 2A N NO6.Nitranide of ammonioAg N NO6 ( ( H4N ) argentammonium .
[ ( H4N)J J0 { A N gNNO lNitranide of diammonio1 Ag N NONtaniumde of dil ( H4 N)2J argentammonium .
( H N)2T ) I readily admit that here speculation appears rather in advance of experiment .
Nevertheless it deserves to be noticed , that among the substances produced by the action of ammonia upon metallic salts , of which so great a variety has been investigated by HENRY ROSE , there is , as far as I know , not a single one containing more than 4 equivs. of ammonia , which still admits of their being included in the idea to which 1 have alluded .
398

