VI .
" Researches on the Colouring Matters derived from Coal-tar .
II .
On Aniline-blue .
" By A. W. HOFMIANN , LL. D. , F.P.S. Received June 30 , 1863 .
Among the several stages which mark the development of the industry of coal-tar colours , the discovery of the transformation of anilitnc-red into aniline-blue will always hold a prom-inent position .
This transition , for the first time observed by MM .
Girard and De Laire * , two young French chemists of M. Pelouze 's Laboratory , and subsequenltly matured by M. Persoz , De Laynes , and Salvetatt , has become the foundation of an enlormous industrial production , which , having received a powerful impulse by MM .
Relnard Brothers and Franic in France , and more recently by Messrs. Simpson , Maule , and Nicholson in this country , has rapidly attained to proportions of colossal magniitude .
The transformation of aniline-red into anililne-blue is accomplished by a process of great simplicity , and consists , briefly expressed , in the treatment at a high temperatuLre of rosaniline with an excess of anililne .
The mode of this treatment is by no means indifferent .
Rosaniiline itself cannot in this malner colnveniently be converted into the blue colouring matter ; the transformation is , however , easily accoimplished by heating rosaniline salts with aniiline , or , vice versa , rosaniline with salts of aniline .
Again , the nature of the acids with which the bases are combined is by no means without influence upon the result of the operation ; manufacturers give a decided preferenice to organic acids , such as acetic or benizoic acids .
The production of the new colouring matter on a very large scale has already elicited a good , deal of most valuable information regarding the phenomena which characterize the transition of rosaniline into its blue derivative ; again , the several processes of purification to which the crude product is submitted have throwln much light upon the chemical character of the compound .
MM .
Girard and De Laire , whose names are so intimately associated with the development of the new colour-industry , have pointed out that the passage from red to blue is attended by an evolution of torrents of ammonia ; and Mr. Nicholson , who combines the genius of the manufacturer with the habits of the scientific inquirer , has ascertained that the blue colouring matter is invariably a saline compound of a base itself colourless , like rosaniline .
But the relations between the two colourless bases , and consequently the nature of the reaction by which rosaniline is converted into the blue colouring matter , had hitherto remailled unknown .
It was therefore with great pleasure that I accepted the kind offer of my friend Mr. Nicholson to supply me with the necessary materials for the elucidation of this question .
The salt transmitted to me , and which Mr. Nicholson had prepared himself , was the chloride .
IHydrochlorate.-This compound is an indistinctly crystalline powder of a bluish-brown colour , which at 100 ?
becomes pure brown .
It is perfectly insoluble in water , cold or boiling-so much so , indeed , that it imparts no colour to the water with which it is washed .
It is likewise insoluble in ether , but dissolves , although with difficulty , in alcohol , which assumes the magnificent deep-blue tint characteristic of this colouring matter .
The boiling saturated alcoholic solutioni deposits the chloride on cooling in the form of imperfect crystalline granules .
The alcoholic solution , when evaporated , leaves the compound as a thin film , which reflects the light with a peculiar metallic , half-golden , half-coppery lustre .
The hydrochlorate has the same composition whether dried in vacuo or at 1000 .
Several analyses made with specimens of different preparations lead unmistakably to the expressioni 38,2N3 Cl. This formula containis the history of aniline-blue , pointing out as it does not only its chemical character and the relation in which it stailds to rosaniline , but explaining also , in the most satisfactory manner , the reaction by which the passage fromred to blue is accomplished .
The simple and natural interpretationi of the formula which I have giveu .
, exhibits the new compound in the light of the hydrochlorate of triphenylic rosaniline 8 , 038 1132 3 Cl-C20 16 ( C6 115)3 N3 , 110 when the process of transformation becomes represented by the equation 20 19 N3 , HC1 +3 C6 7N= C20 116 ( C6 11)3 N3 , 1C1 3-1,3 N. Rosaniline-salt .
Aniline .
Salt of triphenylic rosaniline .
Ammnonia .
' The relation between aniliuie-red and aniline-blue is already pointed out in a short note submitted to the Royal Society a few weeks ago.-A .
W. H. Free Base.-The separation of the base from the hydrochlorate presents no difficulty .
This salt dissolves in alcoholic ammonia , giving rise to a wille-yellow solution .
This liquid contains the base in the free state , together with chloride of ammnorium .
On ebullition the blue colour reappears , the salt being reproduced with evolution of ammonia .
Addition of water , on the other hand , produces a white or greyish precipitate , consisting of triphenylic rosaniline .
The best mode of procuring this compound in a state fit for analysis is to pour the concelntrated solution of the hydrochlorate in ammoniacal alcohol into water , when the base separates as a curdy mass which soon collects upon the surface of the liquid .
During the process of washing , and especially of drying , even in vacuo , the greyish powder gradually assumes a blue tint .
The vacuum-dry substance , when exposed to 1000 , assumes a deep brown colour , which it retains on cooling ; at 100 ?
it slightly fuses , but does not change weight .
Triphenylic rosaniline shows a tendency to crystallize , but hitherto I have not been able to obtain it in distinct crystals .
The solution in alcohol and also in ether ( which dissolves the base with the greatest facility ) have , even on spontanieous evaporation , deposited the base in the form of an almost amorphous residue .
Analysis assigns to this base the composition which corresponds to that of the hydrochlorate previously examined , nlamely C38 133 3 20 16 ( CG 615)3 N3 , H12 0 Triphenylic rosaniline is thus seen to separate from its salinie combinations in the state of hydrate , exactly like rosaniline itself .
I have endeavoured to obtain further confirmation of these results by the analysis of several salts of triphenylic rosaniline .
These salts were invariably prepared by treatmenit of the free base with the free acids .
They resemble in their properties the hydrochlorate-so much so , indeed , that they could not possibly be distinguished without analysis .
The nitrate is perhaps a little more , the sulphate a little less soluble in alcohol than the hydrochlorate .
The following salts were submitted to analysis : Hydrobromate .
C38 H32 N3 Br =C20 H116 ( C H6)3 N3 , N IBr .
IHydriodate .
038 132 N3I =C20 1110 ( C6 115 ) N3 , III Nitrate .
C38 1132 N4 03 = 20 1116 ( C6 H1)3 N3 , H1N03 .
Sulphate .
C76 1 64 NO SO _C20 I1 ( CO 115)3 N3 1 -I IS C I-INS76 64 64 C20 51 ( C6 11)3 N3 3 II I Rosaniline , it will be remembered , forms , in additioni to its ordinary monatomic compouindls , a series of triatomic salts , which are more soluble and comparatively colourless .
I have vainly endeavoured to prepare similar compounds with the triphenylic derivative of rosaniline .
Action of r educing agents upon Triphenylic Rosaniline.-Remembering the facility with which rosaniline is attacked by reducing agents , and the valuable help which the exa -ination of the leucaniliine thus produced afforded in establishing the formula of rosaniiline , I was led to study the deportment of the triphenylic derivative under similar circumstances .
This substance indeed is readily reduced both by nascent hydrogenl and by sul phide of ammonium .
The alcoholic solution of the chloride , when left in contact with zinc and hydrochloric acid , is rapidly decolorized .
The clear liquid when mixed with water yields a white , scarcely crystalline precipitate , which may be freed from chloride of zinc by washing , and separated from accidenital impurities by solution in ether , in which it is easily soluble .
If the reductioni be effected by siilphide of ammonium , the product is apt to be contaminated with sulphur and secondary products .
In this case the separation has to be accomplished by treating the crude mass obtained in the reaction with bisulphide of carbon , which dissolves both the sulphur and the product of the reduction , leaving behind a brown resinlous substance , the nature of which is not yet investigated .
The mixture remaining after the evaporationi of the bisulphide of carbon is repeatedly boiled with soda , which dissolves the sulphur ; the residuary compound is then finally purified by solution in ether , from which it is deposited onspolntaneous evaporation in the form of a friable resin .
Unfortunately this compound is no longer basic , so that it was impossible to combine it with acids ; but its combustion has furnished nuLmbers agreeing exactly with the composition assigned to it by theory , namely C30H , N-=C0 ills ( Co 1Ii5 ) , N,3 .
38 I33 3= 20 E8(d533 The compound accordingly is triploenylic leucaniline .
It will be observed that the triphenylic derivative , like leucaniline -itself , is anhydrous-a constancy of behaviour in the normal and derived compounds which has already been pointed out in the case of rosaniline and its phenylic derivative .
Under the influence of oxidizing agents , the hydrogenetted body is rapidly reconverted into the cow-pound from which it has been obtained .
The experiment succeeds best with platinum-chloride .
The colourless solution of triphenylic leucaniline , when boiled with a few drops of dichloride of platinum , inmmediately assumes the splenldid blue colour which distinguishes the salts of the non-hydrogenletted base .
The transformation of aniline-red into aniline-blue possesses a variety of initerests .
A lively imagination might feel tempted to speculate oln the relation between colour and composition ; but there are other questions claiming more immediately the attention of the expecrinmentalist .
Up to the present monment chemists were uliacquainted with a method of phenylation .
The chloride , bromide , and iodide of the phenyl-series have been but imperfectly studied ; but we are sufficiently acquainted with them to know that they are far from possessing the plastic character of the corresponding compounds of the methyland ethyl-series , which confers such value upon these stubstances as agents of research .
We are unable to substitute phenyl for hydrogen by processes borrowed from the experience gathered in experimenting with the ordinary alcohols .
Diphenylamine and triphenylamiine are substances existing at present only in the conception of the chemist .
It was reserved for the peculiar , I might almost say instinctive mode of experimenting belonging to industry to fill up this blank .
The transformation of rosaniline into aniline-blue suggests some other questions which must not altogether remain unnoticed here , although I hope to enter more fully into this subject elsewhere .
Does this transformation simply involve an interchange between the hydrogen and pheniyl atoms , or does the rosaniliine molecule lose ammonia , which is replaced by aniline ?
I do not pretend to answer this question ; but I beg leave to record some experiments as materials towards the solution of the problem .
Methlylie , Eithylic , and Arnylic Derivatives of Rosaniline .
The interpretation of the results delineated in the previous pages legitimately suggested the study of the behaviour of rosaniline under ordinary processes of substitution-in other words , the treatment of this base with the iodides of methyl , ethyl , and amyl .
I will not describe the pleasure with which I observed the intense blue colour of the mixture of rosaniline with these iodides when , after a day 's digestion , I took the sealed glass tubes from the boiler .
The action of iodide of methyl and ethyl is readily accomplished at 100 ?
C. ; iodide of amyl requires a temperature of from 1500 to 1600 .
The presence of alcohol facilitates the reaction .
Up to the present moment I have only examined in detail the action of iodide of ethyl .
The product of this action is an iodide which dissolves with a magnificent blue colour in alcohol .
The tinctorial powers of this solution are scarcely inferior to that of rosanliline itself ; and industry will probably not disdain to utilize this latest indication of scienice .
The blue ethylated derivative of rosaniline , as might have been expected , presents in its properties greater analogies with rosaniline itself than the triphenylic compounid .
This analogy suggested difficulties in the separation of the two substances which it appeared better to avoid .
The iodide produced by the reaction was therefore at once decomposed by soda , and the ethylic derivative , together with the unaltered rosanilinie , again suibmitted to the action of iodide of ethyl .
After this process had been once more repeated , the alcoholic solution of the final product was precipitated by water , which separated a soft resin4like substance , solidifying OIn cooling with crystalline structure , and exhibiting a very peculiar metallic lustre intermediate between those presented by the sIts of rosaniline and of its phenylic derivative .
Crystallization from dilute spirit furnished the iodide in the pure state .
The results obtained in the combustion and iodine determination of this substalnce agree with the formula 28 s8 3 20 10 ( C2 5)3 32 3-5 3j showing that the frequent repetition of the process of ethylation had produced , not the hydriodate of triethylic rosaniline , but the ethyliodate of this substance , -a result which appeared particularly welcome , inasmuch as it threw at the same time considerable light upon the degree of substitution which belongs to rosaniline itself .
The facts elicited by the study of the action of iodide of ethyl upon rosaniline open a new field of research , which promises a harvest of results .
The question very naturally suggests itself , Whether the substitution for hydrogen in rosaniline of radicals other than methyl , ethyl , and amyl , may not possibly give rise to colours differing from blue ; and whether chemistry may not ultimately teach us systematically to build up colouring molecules , the particular tint of which we may predict with the same certainty with which we at present anticipate the boiling-point and other physical properties of the compounds of our theoreticalconceptions ?
This idea appears to have floated in the mind of M. E. Kopp when , with remarkable sagacity , he concluded his paper on Aniline-red* in the following terms:- " The hydrogen of this substance being replaceable also by methyl , ethyl , and amyl , &amp;c. , we may anticipate the existence of a numerous series of compounds , all belonging to the same type , and which might constitute colouring matters either red , or violet , or blue .
" Conceptions which only two years ago appeared little more than a scientific dream , arepnow in the very act of accomplishment .
I propose to continue these researches , and intend in a later communication to submit to the Royal Society the results obtained in the study of two other colouring matters derived from rosaniline , viz. anilinegreen and aniline-violet .

