487 November 25 , 1858 .
W. R. GROVE , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
In accordance with the Statutes , notice was given of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council proposed for election was read , as follows : President.-Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie , Bart. Treasurer.-Major-General Sabine , R.A. Secretaries .
William Sharpey , M.D. I George Gabriel Stokes , Esq. , M.A. Foreign Secretary.-William Hallows Miller , Esq. , M.A. Other Members of the Council.-Henry Wentworth Dyke Acland , M.D. ; Rear-Admiral Sir George Back , D.C.L. ; The Rev. John Barlow , M.A. ; Thomas Bell , Esq. , Pres. L.S. ; His Grace the Duke of Devonshire , M.A. ; Edward Frankland , Ph. D. ; John Peter Gassiot , Esq. ; Philip Hardwick , Esq. , R.A. ; Arthur IIenfrey , Esq. ; Lieut.-Colonel Henry James , R.E. ; Sir Roderick Impey Murchison , M.A. , D.C.L. ; John Percy , M.D. ; Archibald Smith , Esq. , M.A. ; The Rev. William Whewell , D.D. ; Charles Wheatstone , Esq. ; The Lord Wrottesley , M.A. Captain Boxer , R.A. , was admitted into the Society .
Robert W. Bunsen , Louis Poinsot , and Carl Theodor von Siebold , having been severally balloted for , were elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following communications were read : I. " Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases."--No .
III .
Phophoretted Ureas .
By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1858 .
The existence in the nitrogen-series of a well-defined group of diamines of the formula A ) B2 / N2 , C2 rendered it probable that the continued study of the phosphorus- , 488 arsenic- , and antimony-bases would lead to the discovery of the corresponding terms , A2 4A B2 XP2 B2 &gt; As2 and B2 ~Sb2 , C2 C2 , j C2 which might be designated as diphosphines , diarsines , and distibines ; and the further prosecution of this line of thought very naturally suggested the idea of searching for a group of intermediate compounds containing simultaneously nitrogen and phosphorus , nitrogen and arsenic , phosphorus and arsenic , &amp;c. , compounds expressed by the formulae A2 A2 2 B2 NP ; B , NAs ; B2 &gt; PAs , &amp;c. , C29 C2 c2 ) which might be termed phosphamines , arsamines , phospharsines , &amp;c. Among the several processes likely to furnish this result , none appeared more promising than the reaction between a monamine and a monophosphine of opposite chemical characters .
In the conception of this idea , I have studied the deportment of cyanic acid and some of its derivatives with phosphoretted hydrogen and its homologues , in the hope of producing combinations similar in constitution to the ureas , but differing from these substances by containing phosphorus in the place of one equivalent of nitrogen .
The action of cyanate and sulphocyanide of phenyl , an account of which I have lately* submitted to the Royal Society , upon triethylphosphine , seemed to include the conditions for the realization of such compounds .
On bringing cyanate of phenyl in contact with triethylphosphine , a most lively reaction ensues ; the mixture begins to boil , and the phosphorus-base is apt to be inflamed .
On cooling , the liquid solidifies into a crystalline mass , which is insoluble in water , soluble in alcohol and ether , and crystallizes from the latter solvent in beautiful little square tables , tasteless , inodorous , and infusible at 100 ?
C. On submitting this compound to analysis , I was surprised to find that it contained no phosphorus , and that it exhibited the composition of the original cyanate of phenyl , from which it differs so essentially in its properties .
This substance is the cyanurate of phenyl , generated from the cyanate by simple transposition of the elements .
The 489 triethylphosphine participates only indirectly in the reaction ; in giving rise to the transformation of the cyanate , the phosphorous body plays the part of a ferment , a comparison which is moreover suggested by the large proportion of cyanate over which the influence of a minute quantity of phosphorus-base extends .
A glass rod moistened with triethylphosphine solidifies , almost instantaneously , a considerable quantity of the cyanate .
The transformation of the cyanate under the influence of triethylphosphine , into cyanurate , although the principal phase of the reaction , is attended by other changes which I intend to examine more minutely by and by .
Very different results were obtained by substituting for the cyanate the sulphocyanide of phenyl .
The reaction between this body and triethylphosphine is very violent , and frequently gives rise to the inflammation of the phosphorus-base .
The mixture assumes a deep yellow colour , and often deposits splendid yellow needles on cooling ; frequently , however , it remains liquid for hours and even for days , but suddenly solidifies , when touched with a glass rod , into a hard , yellow , crystalline mass .
This substance is insoluble in water ; it dissolves with the greatest facility in alcohol , hot or cold , likewise in warm , less so in cold ether .
Recrystallization from boiling ether affords , in fact , the best means of procuring the new body in a state of purity .
This end is likewise considerably facilitated , by allowing the sulphocyanide of phenyl to act upon the triethylphosphine in the presence of a considerable quantity of ether .
In the pure state the new compound presents itself in the form of well-defined prisms of uranium-yellow colour , which fuse at 61 ?
C. They cannot be heated much beyond their fusing-point without being altered ; at 100 ?
C. they are entirely decomposed , evolving a most peculiar odour , which is also observed on evaporating the ethereal mother-liquor .
The new compound possesses the characters of a well-defined base .
Quite insoluble in water , it dissolves in the most dilute acids , forming with some of them , such as hydrochloric and hydrobromic acid , beautifully crystallized saline compounds .
From these salts the base may be separated again by cautiously adding either potassa or ammonia .
The hydrochloric solution of the base yields with dichloride of platinum a yellow crystalline precipitate , sparingly soluble in water , insoluble in alcohol and ether .
490 Analysis of the yellow crystals , dried over sulphuric acid , led to the formula C2 120 N PS2 , which shows that they are formed by the simple union of the two substances placed in contact : 14 H NS2+ C12 111 P=C26 HN PS2 .
Sulphocyanide TriethylNew compound .
of phenyl .
phosphine .
If we consider urea as a diamine derived from diammonia by the substitution of the diatomic molecule carbonyl ( C202 ) " for 2 equivs. of hydrogen , ( 02 02 , ) " Urea C , H1 , N 02 , = 2 ) N2 H2 J - the simplest perhaps of the many views brought forward regarding the constitution of urea , the new substance , which formation as well as chemical deportment essentially characterize as an analogue of urea , may be represented by the following forrula:(C02 S2 ) C26 T2 N PS2= ( C. H1)2 NP ; ( CJ12 e5 ) ( C t ) iJ that is , urea , the oxygen of which is replaced by sulphur , the hydrogen by ethyl and phenyl , and lastly , half the nitrogen by phosphorus .
The formation of this compound presents considerable interest , not only as an illustration of the remarkable persistence of the type urea , but also as furnishing the first unequivocal instance of the formation of ureas containing no longer any unreplaced hydrogen , the existence of which had as yet remained doubtful .
The new urea forms , as I have stated , a series of well-defined beautifully crystallized salts .
Its solution in warm hydrochloric acid solidifies , on cooling , into a crystalline mass , which , when recrystallized from warm water , is obtained in splendid needles of a bright cadmium-yellow colour , often several inches in length .
They are decomposed at 100 ?
C. , and must therefore be dried over sulphuric acid in vacuo .
Analysis proved them to contain C261 10 N PS , HC1L The solution of this salt yields with dichloride of platinum a bright yellow precipitate , which under the microscope is found to consist of 491 small lily-shaped crystals .
Dried over sulphuric acid in vacuo it contains C26 H20 N PS2 , HC1 , Pt C12 .
The hydrochlorate yields also a precipitate with trichloride of gold ; the salt is , however , rapidly blackened .
The hydrobromate , both in preparation and properties , resembles the hydrochlorate .
Its composition is C26 H20 NPS2 , HBr .
The urea readily combines with iodide of methyl and ethyl .
The methyl-compound immediately separates in the crystalline form on mixing an ethereal solution of the urea with iodide of methyl ; it is soluble in water , and crystallizes from a boiling solution in beautiful golden-yellow needles , containing C26 H20 N PS2 , C , H I. The iodide , by the action of chloride of silver , may be converted into the chloride ; this yields with dichloride of platinum a fine needle-formed salt , which may be recrystallized without decomposition .
The formula of this platinum-salt is C26 H20 N PS , , C2 3 C1 , Pt , C1 , .
When treated with oxide of silver , the iodide furnishes a powerfully alkaline liquid , probably the corresponding base [ ( C2 13 ) ( ( C2 S2 ) " ( C4 115)3 ( C12 -11 ) N P ) ] } Scarcely separated , however , this substance decomposes with liberation of sulphocyanide of phenyl , the oxide of methyl-triethylphosphonium remaining in solution .
This salt is sufficiently characterized by the readily crystallizable octahedral platinum-salt .
I have not been able to obtain either the sulphate or the nitrate of the urea , probably on account of the great instability of the new substance .
On dissolving the base , even in dilute nitric acid , it is immediately decomposed with separation of sulphocyanide of phenyl , the triethylphosphine being oxidized .
The same change is observed when one of the more stable salts , such as the hydrochlorate , is dissolved in a large quantity of water ; the liquid soon becomes turbid from the elimination of oily globules of sulphocyanide of phenyl , and now contains the hydrochlorate of the phosphorus-base .
On adding ammonia to a salt of the urea , similar phenomena are 492 observed .
From a concentrated solution , the base is separated without change ; but when dilute and hot solutions are employed , the turbidity at first produced disappears , and after a few minutes beautiful crystals of phenyl-sulphocarbamide ( C , , H8 N2 S2 ) make their appearance ; at the same time the odour of triethylphosphine becomes perceptible .
With potassa the deportment is perfectly analogous , but the crystals formed after some time are diphenyl-sulphocarbamide ( sulphocarbanilide , C2 HI,1 N , S2 ) instead of phenyl-sulphocarbamide .
On adding to an ethereal solution of the urea a few drops of bisulphide of carbon , the liquid , when gently heated , assumes a deep crimson colour , and deposits , on cooling , the beautiful compound ( C4 H5)3 P , C , S , , which I have described some time agot .
The mother-liquor yields on evaporation oily drops of sulphocyanide of phenyl .
The deportment of triethylphosphine with sulphocyanide of phenyl induced me to investigate the action of this body upon several other sulphocyanides .
The substance which at once suggested itself for examination was sulphocyanide of allyl , mustard-oil .
This compound reacts most powerfully with the phosphorus-base .
On mixing the two bodies , a powerful evolution of heat takes place , and the mixture assumes a deep brown colour , but does not solidify either on cooling or on agitation .
After several days ' standing , however , very large well-defined crystals are deposited which unfortunately are contaminated with the brown colouring matter of the solution .
I have not yet succeeded in getting them perfectly white , and have therefore not analysed them .
Their formation , however , and their general characters leave no doubt that they are the corresponding allylcompound , ( C2 SY ) C,0,0 NPS,2= ( C H5)2 NP .
( 045 ) ( C , H , ) Triethylphosphine has remained in contact with sulphocyanide of ethyl for more than a month without depositing any crystals .
A priori , however , the formation of an urea under these circumstances was doubtful , since sulphocyanide of ethyl differs from the corresponding phenyland allyl-compounds , even in its deportment with ammonia and the monamines .
* Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. ix , p. 276 .
t Ibid. p. 290 .
493 In conclusion , it deserves to be mentioned that there appears to exist a similar series of arsenetted ureas .
Triethylarsine , when left for some weeks in contact with sulphocyanide of phenyl , deposits small crystals of a body which I believe to be the arsenic-compound corresponding to the phosphorus-urea described in this paper .
This body requires a more minute examination .
II .
" On the Deflection of the Plumb-line in India caused by the Attraction of the Himalaya Mountains and the elevated regions beyond , and its modification by the compensating effect of a Deficiency of Matter below the Mountain Mass .
" By the Venerable Archdeacon PRATT .
Communicated by Mr. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received October 25 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The author begins by referring to his former paper , published in the 'Transactions ' for 1855 , in which he calculated the deflections caused by the mountain mass on the north of HIindostan , at three principal stations of the Great Arc , in the plane of the meridian , viz. Kaliana ( lat. 290 30 ' 48 " ) , Kalianpur ( 240 7 ' 11 " ) , and Damargida ( 18 ? ?
3 ' 15 " ) .
He made them 27"'853 , 11"'968 , and 6"'909 ( or more correctly , as revised in the present Paper , 27"'978 , 12"'047 , and 6"790 ) ; and showed that the comparison of these two portions of the arc-which , if it be elliptical , and if the amplitudes are accurately known , ought to give the exact ellipticity of the arc in question-gives an ellipticity of L , instead of the mean -1- .
2 .
He next states that the Astronomer Royal , in a subsequent communication ( in 1855 ) , suggests that there is most probably a deficiency of matter immediately below the mountains which will cause a negative deflection , and so compensate for the mountain attraction .
Three objections are urged against this hypothesis , as stated by Mr. Airy .
It requires ( 1 ) that the solid crust should be only about ten miles thick ; ( 2 ) that the crust should be lighter than the lava on which it rests ; ( 3 ) that wherever there is a protuberance upwards in mountain masses and table-lands , there must be a corresponding projection of the crust downwards into the fluid , which it is difficult to conceive , as the same reason which is used to show it would prove also that , where there are hollows above as in deep

