February 24 , 1859 .
Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. " lResearches on the Phosphorus-Bases."-No .
V. Diphosphonium Compounds .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received January 20 , 1859 .
In a note* on the deportment of dibromide of ethylene with triethylphosphine , I have stated that the reaction between these two substances gives rise to the production of Bromide of triethylbromethylene[(C1 HI5 ) ( C H]4 Br)P]Br phosphonium [ C I ) C14B)P r whilst two other bromides , viz. Bromide of triethylphosphonium [ ( C4H11 ) , HP]Br and Bromide of triethylvinyl-phos[(C)4H)3(C , Hj P]Br phonium f[C , H ) C I)P r are generated in consequence of secondary processes .
But I did not fail to remark in the same note , that in addition there is formed in this reaction a fourth bromide , the nature of which , at that time , I had been unable to fix by experiment .
I have continued the study of this substance , which has led to the follouing results .
All attempts to eliminate the bromide in question by frequently recrystallizing the direct product of the action of dibromide of ethylene on triethylphosphine have entirely failed .
Considerable sacrifice of precious material and often repeated anialyses of the different crops of crystallization taught me nothing , except that the body 652 which I endeavoured to grasp is most abundantly produced when the triethylphosphine is rather in excess .
Indeed , it would appear , that under those conditions , the bromide in question constitutes the prinicipal product of the reaction .
Not more successful was an attempt to increase the chances of separation by reducing the number of the bromides .
As I have previously stated , treatmeent with oxide of silver destroys the triethylated-bromethylene-phosphonium , converting it into a basic compound , which contains no longer any bromine , whilst the same agent transforms the bromide of triethylphosphoniurm into the oxide of argento-triethylphosphonium , and the dioxide of triethylphosphine .
On saturating again by hydrobromic acid the liquid thus produced , the solution now contained only the new bromide , the bromide of the debrominetted body , and the dibromide of triethylphosphine , the extreme solubility of which rendered its presence alrnost harmless .
The task was thus virtually reduced to the separation of two bromides .
Unfortunately , the two substances resemble each other to such an extent , that this hope also had to be abandoned .
A modification , however , of this process led to the solution of the difficulty .
Oni saturating the alkalinie solution , produced by the actioni of oxide of silver upon the crude bromides , with hydriodic instead of hydrobromic acid , a mixture of the corresponding iodides was obtained , the separation of which could be easily accomplished .
On moderately concentrating this solution , a beautiful iodide of limited solubility was deposited .
This substance readily dissolved in boiling water , from which it crystallized on cooling in long white needles .
It was less soluble in alcohol , insoluble in ether .
The analysis of this compound , carefully purified by repeated cryJstallizations , led to the following atomic expression : C14 H7PI .
This formula received ample confirmation by the examination of a platinumand gold-compound .
Converted into chloride and precipitated by dichloride of platinum , the new body furnished a crystalline , difficultly-soluble platinum-salt , differing from the platinum-salts of all the other compounds of this group .
This salt dissolves in boiling concentrated hydroehloric acid without decomposition , and crystallizes on cooling in beautiful yellow needles conitaining 653 Gli H17 PCl , Pt C12 .
The gold-salt is a bright yellow crystalline precipitate , difficultly soluble in boiling water , and not recrystallizable without some alteration .
The gold-determination agreed with the formula C1411 17P Cl , AuCI3 The preceding formulae are simple translations of the analytical results , but they convey no idea regarding the nature of the new body .
Legitimate interpretation of these expressions , and a due appreciatioIn of the conditions in which the new compounds are formed , unavoidably lead IIs to the conclusion that the formulae must be doubled .
The molecule of the new iodide thus becomes C28 H34p21 P2 corresponding to an original bromide , C28 134 P2 Br2 , which is simply formed by the association of 2 equivalents of triethylphosphine and 1 equivalent of dibromide of ethylene , 2 C12 11 15P+ C4 114 Br2=C28 1134P2 Br2* The formule of the platinum-salt and of the gold-salt of course have likewise to be doubled : Platinum-salt C28 H 34 P2 Cl2 , 2Pt Cl2 , Gold-salt C28 H34P2C12 , 2Au C13 ; the number of platinlumand gold-equivalents which respectively exist in these compounds being apparently determined by the number of triethylphosphine-equivalents associated in the new salt .
I have vainly endeavoured to produce compounds containing only one equivalent of platinum and gold , but have succeeded in procuring a welldefined silver-compound : C28 34P2Br2 , AgBr , which is formed by treating the new bromide with a quantity of oxide of silver insufficient for complete decomposition .
This compound is a double salt of equal equivalents of the proximate constituents .
The deportment of triethylphosphine with dibromide of ethylene , and more particularly the fbrmation of the new bromide , is not with654 out theoretical interest .
The molecule of dibromide of ethylene , equivalent to 2 molecules of hydrobromic acid , fixes in this reaction 2 molecules of triethylphosphinie , equivalent to 2 molecules of ammonia , the result being a compound saline molecule , equivalent to 2 molecules of sal ammoniac .
, 2 ) L ( C4 15)2 2N 2C ( C4 11)2 P2 Br , 222 ( , 15)2 L2 _(C4 11 ) 2 molecules of Molecule of the diatomic sal ammoniac .
bromide .
It is not quite easy to frame a namie for this complex body , in which , under the influence of the diatomic ethylelne , 2 molecules of triethylphosphine are , if I may say so , dovetailed together .
We have in this case to deal with a compound molecularly representing 2 equivalents of chloride of ammonium , with phosphorus in the place of nitrogen , brominie in the place of chlorine , 6 equivalents of ethyl and 1 equivalent of diatomic ethylene being substituted for the 3 equivalents of hydrogen ; in fact , the compound is a dibromide of hexethylethylene-diphosphonium , sit venia verbo .
Those who have accorded some attention to the direction of these researches , cannot have failed to observe that the conception of the compound which forms the subject of this note was the point from which I started in examining the deportment of triethylphosphine with dibromide of ethylene .
In a note on polyammonias , presented to the Royal Society about a year ago * , I first pointed out the existence of similar compounds in the nitrogen-series , adducing in favour of this view suich experimental evidence as I was enabled to collect from the materials at hand .
I have since endeavoured to expand this evidence by the realization of a variety of bodies of analogous constitution .
For this purpose I have examined the action of ammonia on dibromide of ethylene ; a process , which , owing to the number of bodies simultaneouisly produced , presents considerable difficulties .
With the view of simplifying the reaction , I have passed step by step to the primary , secondary , and tertiary monamines , in which the advancing state of substitution promised a reduction of the number of compounids capable of being generated under the influence of 655 dibromide of ethylene .
These experiments , some of which have been laid already before the Royal Society , whilst others are still incomplete , have fturnished many additional illustrations of the group of polyammonias ; but most of these reactions are complicated , and the compounds produced are far from always presenting the salient characters which I could have desired .
In fact , it was not until I pursued the inquiry into the phosphorus-series , and relying on the promptness and precision with which these substances act , examined the deportment of dibromide of ethylene with triethylphosphine , that the experiments were attended by the desired success .
The new diphosphonium-compounds which form the subject of this note are remarkable for their well-defined characters , and for their stability .
They may be heated to 2500 C. without undergoing the slightest change .
Even the dioxide , which is readily liberated by the action of oxide of silver upon either the bromide or the iodide , is a very stable compound .
The solution of this substance , which obviously corresponds to 2 molecules of water , i2 }T [ ( 4 45)6 ( C4 4 ) P2 ] if 2~ 22 molecules Molecuile of the diphosphoniumof water .
compound .
is a powerfully alkaline liquid , attracting with great avidity the carbonic acid of the atmosphere , and precipitating the metallic oxides like potassa .
The solution may be evaporated without change to a syrup-like liquid , and it is only at a very hiigh temperature that decomposition actually takes places .
At one time I had hoped to see this body splitting under the inifluence of heat into the ethylenealcohol ( glycol ) and triethylphosphine , but the transformation ensues in another form , only traces of phosphorus-base being 'liberated , while the principal product is the dioxide of triethylphosphine , which , in the latter stages of the distillation , coats the neck of the retort with a network of beautiful needles ; a small quantity of gas ( hydride of ethyl ?
) being simultaneously evolved .
The reaction is probably [ ( 04 H,5 ) ( 04 114 ) " PJ2 } 04 C4 116+2[(C , , 15)3 P02 ] this equation , however , is not experimentally established .
The molecule of the diphosphoniunm-bromide contains the elements of 1 molecule of bromide of triethyIphosphonium and 1 molecule of triethyl-vinyl-phosphonium , [ ( C4-15)6(C4H4)"P2]]"Br2= [ ( C0411)3E1P ] Br + [ ( C0-1 ) , ( C , H1)P]Br ; I have endeavoured to split the latter in accordance with the above equation , but without success .
Triethylphosphine acts with einergy upon the homologues of dibromide of ethylene ; I have not yet examined , however , any of the products thus obtained .
Mr. W. Valentin , to whomn I am indebted for much valuable assistance during my experiments , has found , moreover , that triethylarsine unites with dibromide of ethylene .
He has not yet completed the investigation of the crystalline body which is generated in this reaction .

