VI .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias.-No .
XXIV .
On Isomeric Diainines .
" ByA .
W. HOrMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1863 .
In a former paper* I have described phenylene-diamine , an aromatic diamine which is formed by the action of powerful reducing agents upon dinitrobenzol .
Phenylene-diamine , the last product of this reaction , is preceded by the formation of an intermediate compound , nitraniline , a substance discovered many years ago by Dr. Muspratt and myself , C6 116 C H4NO 64 NO2 C6 NHi2 NO,2 N , NH2 , .
Benzol .
Dinitrobenzol .
Nitraniline .
Phenylene-diamine .
Nitraniline , as might have been expected , was found to be readily convertible into phenylene-diamine .
By the researches of M. Arppet , chemists have become acquainted with a second nitraniline , which is obtained by the action of fuming nitric acid upon phenyl-pyrotartramide and subsequent treatment of the nitro-compound with potassa .
This substance , which , as I afterwards found , may be more readily prepared by a similar treatment of other less difficultly obtainable phenylamides , such as phenylacetamide or phenyl-succinamide , is isomeric with ordinary nitraniline , but differs from the latter compound both in its physical and chemical properties , so as to leave no doubt regarding the individuality of the two compounds , which have accordingly been distinguished as alpha-nitraniline and beta-nitraniline .
This singular isomerism , which has been traced also in other phenyl-derivatives , remains unexplainedl .
Whilst engaged with the examination of phenylenedic.time , the idea naturally suggested itself , to ascertain whether beta-nitraniline , when submitted to reducing agents , would yield a body isomeric but differing from the phenylene-diamine obtained from dinitrobenzol and alpha-nitraniline .
Beta-nitraniline is readily reduced by a mixture of iron and acetic * Chem. Soc. AMem .
vol. iii .
p. 112 .
t Chem. Soc. Journ. vol. viii .
p. 175 .
+ Among the various attempts I have made to decipher this isomerism , I may mention the treatment of the two nitranilines with the iodides of methyl and ethyl .
But these substances are not acted upon by the reagents in question , and I take this opportunity of correcting an error which has crept into my paper on the molecular constitution of the volatile organic bases ( Phil. Trans. 1850 , vol. i. p. 93 ) .
In this paper I state that the action of iodide of ethyl on nitraniline gives rise to the formation of hydriodate of ethyl-nitraniline .
This statement is based upon a single platinum determination .
The platinum-salt of nitraniline contains 28'66 per cent. of platinum , that of ethyl-nitraniline 26-53 per cent. Analysis had furnished me 26'23 per cent. I have since satisfied myself that the salt was the imperfectly purified platinum-salt of nitraniline .
640 [ June 18 , acid .
The basic compound which distils over has the same compo .
sition as phenylene-diamine , viz. C6 H8 N2 , and presents in its properties many analogies with this substance , but it is far from being identical with it .
The two diatomic bases obviously are related to each other in the same manner as the two nitranilines from which they are derived , and I propose therefore to distinguish them as alpha-phenylene-diamine and beta-phenylene-diamine .
Beta-phenylene-diamine differs from alpha-phenylene-diamine by its superior crystallizing power : whilst the latter for days and often for weeks remains liquid , the former immediately , when separated from one of its salts by an alkali , solidifies into a beautifully crystalline mass .
The fusing-point of alpha-phenylene-diamine is 63 ?
( corr .
) , that of betaphenylene-diamine is 140 ?
( corr .
) ; the former boils at 287 ?
( corr .
) , the latter at 267 ?
( corr .
) .
Beta-phenylene-diamine is remarkable for the facility with which it sublimes even at temperatures below its boiling-point .
The experiment succeeds particularly well in a current of hydrogen gas , when the base is obtained in splendid crystalline plates resembling pyrogallic acid .
The salts of beta-phenylene-diamine , although they are more soluble than the corresponding alpha-phenylene-diamine salts , are distinguished by the same superior crystallizing power .
They are all remarkable for the facility with which they yield beautiful and mostly well-formed crystals .
I have examined only two of these salts somewhat more minutely .
Hydrochlorate of Beta-phenylene-diamine.-This salt crystallizes in large prisms , which are at present in the hands of M. Quintino Sella .
Extremely soluble in water , difficultly soluble in hydrochloric acid , it contains C H8 N2 , 2I-C1 .
Hydrobromate of beta-phenylene-diamine resembles in every respect the hydrochlorate .
The crystals , which were found to have the formula C6 II8 N2 , 2 IBr , are apt to assume a reddish tint when left in contact with the air .
Platinum-salt.-Light-yellow plates extremely soluble in water and readily decomposed by heat .
Composition : C6 8 N2 , , 2 HC1 , 2 Pt C1 .
s1863 .
] 641 The sulphate and nitrate are easily crystallizable salts , somewhat less soluble in water than the hydrochlorate .
Beta-phenylene-diamine and its salts are remarkable for the facility with which they are converted into violetand blue-coloured compounds under the influence of oxidizing agents such as chlorine , bromine , chromic acid , ferric and platinic chloride , &amp;c. Both alphaand beta-phenylenediamine are readily attacked by the iodides of the alcohol radicals ; and a means was thus afforded of ascertaining whether both substances exhibit the same degree of substitution .
Since only the last products of substitution presented any interest , I have submitted the two bases to methylation .
This experiment showed that both alphaand beta-phenylene-diamine are capable of absorbing six equivalents of methyl to produce ammonium compounds of perfect substitution , and that both bases must therefore be represented by the formula C6 Hl4 -I2 &gt; N2 .
In the case of both bases , alternate treatment with iodide of methyl and oxide of silver or distillation with soda , thrice repeated , leads to the formation of a well-crystallized iodide of the formula C H~ NI =-(Co 11 ) N 0121222 =2 L(C I'i ) }N ] IJ2 Whether prepared from alphaor from beta-phenylene-diamine , this salt crystallizes in plates extremely soluble in water , less so in alcohol .
I have found no other difference except that the betaphenylene-compound is more soluble than the derivative of the alpha-base .
Whilst studying the methylated derivatives of the two bases , I have , of course , repeatedly obtained the lower , still volatile bases , which on this occasion were submitted to a few experiments .
The compound C 1H6 N2 ( C6 Hl ) } N , procured from beta-phenylene-diamine , when submitted to the action of iodide of methyl , was found to produce , in the first place , a rather difficultly soluble iodide , Cn0 Hin N2 I ( C I-I)4 N , CH3 I2 ( C I1)4J 2 ' 3 before it was converted into the final product C( H2 N I= ( C H4 ) N2 , 2CH I ( C61 4)l N2 I 2112,21 ( c 113)4 N,11 CL( 113 ) 6 ) The pentamethylated iodide , when treated with hydriodic acid instead of iodide of methyl , furnished the di-iodide of pentamethylphenylenediammonium , ( HI 114 ) ' C11 H20 N2 I2= [ ( C I , ) , H3 N2 12 The two phenylene-diamines are thus seen not only to be isomeric , but to have actually the same degree of substitution , as far as the latter may be rendered transparent by the action of iodide of methyl .
Under these circumstances I was pleased to observe some additional phenomena which removed every doubt regarding their individuality .
On mixing a solution of beta-phenylene-diamine in sulphuric acid with peroxide of manganese , the odour of kinone becomes at once perceptible , and on heating the mixture , kinone distils overthe residuary liquid containing the sulphates of manganese and ammonium , C , H,1 N+ 2H2 , S04 M+ Mn2 S0 , = 4 ( H4 N)2 SO , .
Beta-phenyKinone .
lene-diamine .
The reaction proceeds with such ease that a few milligrammes of the diamine , when submitted to this treatment in the test-tube , yield a distinct crystalline sublimate of kinone , readily recognizable by its many salient properties .
Alpha-phenylene-diamine , when similarly treated , evolves a faint odour of kinone , but does not yield crystals of this substance .
The elegant and easy formation of kinone in this reaction presents some interest , inasmuch as the process appears to be of general application , and will probably lead to the preparation of the higher homologues of kinone .
I have observed the formation of beta-phenylene-diamine in two additional reactions , which , in conclusion , I beg leave to mention .
In the hopes of obtaining the triamine of the phenyl-series ( C HT , ) " ' " C6 It N=H N , It3 1863 .
] 643 I submitted dinitrophenylamine , [ C6 H3 ( NO2)2 ] C6 H1N304O H SN , HJ to distillation with iron and acetic acid , but , instead of the compound which I endeavoured to procure , I invariably obtained beta-phenylenediamine and ammonia , CH 9N3 + H2 = C6 H , N , + HN .
Phenylic triaBeta-phenylenemine .
diamnine .
Again , dinitrazobenzol , C , H , N , O=C N(NO , , when submitted to the action of powerful reducing agents , yields likewise beta-phenylene-diamine CH12 1 N4 04 , +8H2=4H20+2C,6 HN2 .
Dinitrazobenzol .
Beta-phenylenediamine .
I-ere also beta-phenylene-diamine is the final product of the , reaction , the formation of which is preceded by that of another base , the diphenine of Messrs. Gerhardt and Laurent .
Diphenine , according to these chemists , is C12 H N , , a formula chiefly supported by the unequivocal presence of C12 in the molecule of azobenzol , C , 1 HI N2 , whence it derives .
The facility , however , with which diphenine under the influence of nascent hydrogen , by treatment with sulphuric acid and zinc , for instance , is converted into beta-phenylene-diamine renders it probable that the molecule of diphenine is C H116 N , when the two bases become related to each other as kinone and hydrokinone , Kinone ... ... C6 , 02 Diphenine ... ... ... .
N2 H-Iydrokinone. .
CG HI 02 Beta-phenylene-diamine C6 HI N2 .
I have hitherto vainly tried to transform kinone into diphenine or beta-phenylene-diamine ; but it deserves to be noticed that M. Woskresensky , by treating kinone with ammonia , has obtained a green * Woskresensky , Journ. Pract .
Chem. vol. xxxiv .
p. 251 .
644 [ June 18 , beautifully crystalline mass , kinonamide , C6 H5 NO , which stands midway between kinone and diphenine , C6 H4 02+H , N=C , H5 NO+H2 O. Kinone .
Kinonamide .
Another similar step of transformation would lead to diphenine , C6 H5 NO+H3 N=C6 I , N2+H2 O. Kinonamide .
Diphenine .
The preparation of azobenzol in large quantity , its transformation into dinitrazobenzol , and , lastly , the conversion by means of sulphide of potassium of the nitro-compound into diphenine , present so little difficulty , that treatment of diphenine with nascent hydrogen affords the easiest and simplest means of procuring beta-phenylene-diamine in appreciable quantity .

