293 chemistry we are acquainted with a compound closely allied in composition and formation to the new compound .
Bisulphide of carbon , when treated with an alcoholic solution of ammonia , furnishes , together with other products , a salt crystallized in long lemon-yellow needles , which is known by the name of sulphocarbamate of ammonium .
This compound , ( H4 N ) I-I2 N , C2 S4 , when treated with diluted acids , is converted into an oily acid of but little stability , sulphocarbamic acid : H11 , N , C , S , If we replace in this compound the hydrogen by ethyl , the nitrogen by phosphorus , in other words , if we replace the ammonia by triethylphosphine , we arrive at the composition of the body which forms the subject of this note .
I have convinced myself experimentally that trimethylphosphine exhibits with bisulphide of carbon a perfectly similar deportment .
The compound formed is likewise of a crimson colour , but of a somewhat lighter tint ; it is more volatile and more readily soluble in alcohol than the corresponding ethyl-compound : it is also somewhat soluble in water .
Triethylarsin is not altered by the addition of bisulphide of carbon ; after some time , however , long needles are formed in the mixture of the two bodies .
These needles are probably an analogous arseniccompound : I have not however examined them .
A mixture of triethylstibin and bisulphide of carbon was preserved for several months , without undergoing any change .
VIII .
" Contributions towards the History of the Monamines .
" By A. W. HorMANN , PhD .
, F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 28 , 1858 .
The progress of my experiments on the poly-ammonias and on the phosphorus-bases , now and then involves the study of reactions which are scarcely comprised between the boundary lines of the principal inquiries .
For the sake of perspicuity , I beg leave to submit the results of these studies separately to the Society .
1 .
Action of Bibromide of Ethylene on Trimethylamine .
The unexpected result obtained in the action of bibromide of ethyl .
294 en on triethylphosphine , induced me to examine the deportment of the tertiary amine-bases under the influence of the same agent .
As a characteristic representative of this class I have selected trimethylamine , which may be readily procured in tolerable quantity and in a state of purity .
On submitting trimethylamine to the action of bibromide of ethylene , phenomena are observed which are perfectly similar to those which occur in the analogous experiment with triethylphosphine .
On account of the volatility of the trimethylamine , I have never worked with the anhydrous base , but invariably either with aqueous or alcoholic solutions .
At the common temperature bibromide of ethylene is only gradually acted on by an aqueous solution of trimethylamine .
Frequent agitation and contact for several days are necessary to complete the reaction ; addition of alcohol accelerates the process ; which may be still very considerably shortened by exposure of the mixture in sealed vessels to a temperature of from 40 ?
to 50 ? .
To exclude complication , it is desirable to avoid a higher temperature and to keep always the bromide in considerable excess .
By adopting these precautions , the mixture of the two bodies is soon found to deposit a white crystalline salt , the formation of which continues until the liquid has assumed an acid reaction .
A considerable quantity of this salt is dissolved in the water ; it is therefore most convenient to distil off the excess of bibromide of ethylene and to evaporate the residuary liquid to dryness .
The dry saline mass , separated from a slightly yellowish deliquescent substance by washing with absolute alcohol and once or twice recrystallized from the same solvent , furnishes magnificent white needles , extremely soluble in water , readily soluble in boiling alcohol , much less so in cold alcohol , and insoluble in ether .
This salt can be boiled with the fixed alkalies without disengaging a trace of an alkaline vapour .
This deportment renders it easy to recognize the absence of impurities .
The composition of this substance , established by many determinations , is represented by the formula C , H3 C0 o H1 NBr2C2 H3 N , Br .
10 13 c2 -C*3 | , ( C H Br ) ' This substance , which presents itself as bromide of trimethyl-bromethylene-ammonium , is formed by the simple union of 1 equivalent 295 of bibromide of ethylene with 1 equivalent of the tertiary monamine .
A glance at the formula exhibits the perfect analogy of the composition of this compound with that of the bromide formed by the action of bibromide of ethylene on triethylphosphine .
The deportment of the two salts with nitrate and with oxide of silver is also similar in every respect .
By treatment with nitrate of silver , the bromine not belonging to the ammonium may be removed without affecting the bromine of the radical .
The nitrate thus obtained , after separation of the excess of silver , furnishes with bichloride of platinum a difficultly soluble octahedral salt , crystallizable from a large quantity of boiling water , and containing C2 H3 C1O H13 Br N C1 , PtCl2 C2 H3 NC1 , PtCl2 ; ( C4 H4 Br)'J and with terchloride of gold an analogous compound crystallizing from boiling water in splendid golden-yellow needles , C2 H3 C , o H3 Br N Cl , AuC1 NC1 , AuCl .
032 13 ( C4 H , Br ) ' Treatment with oxide of silver converts the bromide of trimethylbromethylene-ammonium into the oxide of trimethyl-vinyl-ammonium : C2 H3 C , H3 , C2H3 .
N Br + 2AgO = 2AgBr + C2 H NO , H. C2a 113 02 113 ( C4 H4 Br)l C4 H3 The solution of this substance is a powerfully alkaline liquid , which , on saturation with hydrobromic acid , furnishes a deliquescent bromide of extreme solubility , entirely differing from the original bromide .
The corresponding chloride forms with bichloride of platinum an octahedral salt , likewise extremely soluble in water , but insoluble in alcohol ; with terchloride of gold , beautiful yellow needles recrystallizable from boiling water .
C21-13 Platinum .
salt C , o 11 NC1 , PtCl2C2 H3 NC1 , PtCI , .
C2 1H3 Ca H Gold-salt ... .
C , , H1 NC1 , AuCl,2 3 NCI , AuCl , C,3 H , 296 As might have been expected from the experience gathered in the phosphorus-series , the formation of the brominetted bromide is invariably accompanied by the simultaneous production of the vinylcompound , and of a corresponding quantity of hydrobromate of trimethylamine .
F 21T1 02 113 C213 2 C2 HN+ Cif Br=2 3 1N1r 2 H3 N Br .
2 N3C 4H r-=2f11 C 21 10112 JT Ii23 H2 3L23 I-i1J C0,113 , !
c , EPJ H C , R , I NC HJ~ Indeed it would appear that at a high temperature and with an excess of trimethylamine , the equation just given represents the principal phase of the reaction .
In an experiment made under the stated conditions , the liquid in the digester had assumed a deep yellowish colour ; and on evaporation and appropriate treatment a crystalline salt was obtained , which on analysis was found to consist exclusively of C23 1Hi C , H , Ill. N B3r=2 C3HN Br ( " 2 1i13.1H3 J the mother-liquor containing a large quantity of hydrobromate of trimethylamine .
It is possible that even in this reaction the vinylcompound was only a secondary product , formed by the decomposition of the brominetted bromide under the influence of an excess of trimethylamine .
C2H13 A 11 C2 13 02H3 C 11 N Br+ 23 13 N B , N ( CHBr ) C2 H3 IC4 H3 Exactly as in the phosphorus-series , together with the compounds described , some other substances are formed , particularly when the process is supported by the action of heat .
As yet I do not sufficiently understand these additional reactions .
I have established experimentally that triethylamine and triamylamine , when treated with bibromide of ethylene , give rise to similar reactions .
I have not , however , minutely examined the substances which are formed .
They are sufficiently characterized by theory .
The unexpected deportment of bibromide of ethylene with the tertiary monamines and monophosphines , furnishes a new proof of the fact , that all our rational formulce are , after all , the expressions of 297 special reactions .
With the alkalies , the brominetted Dutch liquid behaves as a double salt of two monatomic compounds , ( C4 3 , ) ' Br +H Br .
With silver-salts , with aniline , &amp;c. , it exhibits the deportment of a true biatomic compound , ( C4 H1 ) " Br , .
With the tertiary amines and phosphines , lastly , we find that the elements of the same body , in accordance with the requirement of the case , arrange themselves into one monatomic compound , the constitution of which , if we simply consider the function which it performs under these special circumstances , might be represented by the formula ( C , H , Br ) ' Br .
It is obvious that the three formulae , ( 04 13 ) ' Br , 1 Br , ( C4 HI ) " Br , and ( C1 , , Br ) ' Br , represent the constitution of this body with reference to certain special conditions ; the absolute arrangement of the molecules we ignore altogether , and it is doubtful whether it will ever be accessible to experiment .
IX .
" Researches on the Action of Ammonia on Glyoxal .
" By Dr. H. DEBUS .
Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL , Received May 21 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) If alcohol be slowly oxidized by nitric acid at ordinary temperatures , besides other substances , glyoxal , C H11 O. , and glyoxylic acid , C02 I O0* , are formed .
I have continued the investigation of these substances , and beg to lay before the Royal Society some of the more interesting results .
Glyoxal , of the consistency of ordinary syrup , is mixed with about three times its bulk of strong ammonia , and the mixture kept for twenty minutes at a temperature from 60 ?
to 80 ?
C. The liquid

