XV .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases."-No .
XIV .
Action of Triethylphosphine on the Substitution-compounds of Marsh-Gas .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 24 , 1861 .
The formation of diatomic bases by the action of triethylphosphine on dibromide of ethylene , very naturally suggested the idea of studying the deportment of the phosphorus-base with the numerous brominated derivatives of the ethylene-series discovered by Cahours , and lately examined again by A. Lennox .
All these compounds act indeed with extraordinary energy upon triethylphosphine ; the products , however , of these reactions are far from exhibiting , with regard to the compounds from which they originate , the simplicity and intimacy of relation which theoretical speculation , based on the observation of the action of dibromide of ethylene , might lead us to expect .
Most of the brominated substitution-products are apt to lose either bromine or hydrobromic acid , the bromides respectively of triethylphosphine and of triethylphosphonium being formed , together with secondary phosphonium-compounds of subordinate theoretical interest which I have not investigated in detail .
It still remained to study the deportment of the phosphorusbases with chlorineand bromine-compounds of simpler constitution .
Hoping to obtain more characteristic results in this direction , I was led to submit the compounds which are formed by the action of triethylphosphine on some of the substitution-products of marsh-gas to a more minute examination .
The action of chlorine upon marsh-gas has been the subject of an important investigation by Regnault , who has shown that the gradual substitution of chlorine for hydrogen gives rise to the following series .
Marsh-gas ... ... ... ... ... ... C H , Tetrahydride of Carbon .
Monochlorinated marsh-gas ... .
C1 C1 Chloride of Methyl .
Dichlorinated marsh-gas ... ... C H2 C12Dichloride of Methylene .
Trichlorinated marsh-gas ... C 11 C1 , Trichloride of Formyl .
Tetrachlorinated marsh-gas ... .
C Cl4Tetraclloride of Carbon .
I was anxious to ascertain whether these four chlorinated derivatives , when submitted to the action of triethylphosphine , would fix respectively 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 molecules of the phosphorus-base , giving rise to the formation of mono- , di- , tri- , and tetra-phosphonium-compounds , the composition of which was pointed out in advance by theory .
Some of the products which are generated by the action of the chlorinated substitutes of marsh-gas are already known .
Chloride of methyl fixes one molecule of triethylphosphine , giving rise to the chloride of methyl-triethylphosphonium , C H3 Cl + ( C2 H5)3 P= [ ( C 3 ) ( C2 H , )3 P ] Cl , which in combination with dichloride ofplatinumwas examined several years ago by Cahours and myself .
The product which is generated by the action of chloroform on triethylphosphine is likewise known .
I have shown that chloroform is capable of fixing three molecules of phosphorus-base , producing the trichloride of formyl-nonethyltriphosphonium , ( C2 H5)3 P(C H ) " ' C13+3[(C , H)3 P]= |C 11 ) ( ( C , )3 P C13 .
L ( C2 H5)3 PA short account of this substance has been already communicated to the Royal Society * .
It remained therefore only to examine the deportment of triethylphosphine with the second , and likewise with the fourth of the chlorinated substitution-products .
Dichloride of methylene , the product obtained by the action of chlorine on chloride of methyl , acts with considerable energy on triethylphosphine .
Digestion of the mixture for a few hours at a temperature of 100 ?
in sealed tubes , suffices to accomplish the reaction .
The products vary considerably , according to the proportion in which the two agents are mixed .
One molecule of dichloride of methylene and one molecule of triethylphosphine give rise to the formation of the beautifully crystallized chloride of chloromethyl-triethylphosphonium , C H , C12+ ( C2 U ) P= ( C H2 C1 ) ( C , H)3P ] C1 .
This chloride forms with dichloride of platinum a double salt , beautifully crystallized in needles , rather difficultly soluble in water , which contains [ ( C 2 , Cl ) ( C , 115 ) P C01 , Pt C12 .
The chloromethylated triethylphosphonium-salt is capable of fixing a second equivalent of triethylphosphine .
The crystalline mass obtained in this manner is obviously the dichloride of methylene-hexethyldiphosphonium , [ ( C H12 Cl ) ( C2 II , ) P ] C1+ ( C2 H , )3 P= [ ( C H2 ) " ( C2 Ha)3 P'C I have not succeeded in seizing the dichloride in a state fit for analysis , since this compound cannot be brought in contact with water without undergoing immediate decomposition ; but I have been able to trace the diatomic compound in its products of decomposition .
The solution of the dichloride is not precipitated by dichloride of platinum , but , on evaporation , orange-yellow , well-developed octohedra are deposited , which are the platinum-salts of methyltriethylphosphonium .
The mother-liquor of the octohedra furnishes the six-sided tables of the platinum-salt of triethylphosphine .
The following equation represents the transformation of the dichloride of the diphosphonium under the influence of water , ( C it ) , ( C2 }I5)3P " ] ' [ ( Cl,2I)P Cl }O =[(C,3 ) ( C2 , )3 P ] C1+ ( C2 H1)3 PO +HCI .
It is thus seen that the diatomic compounds of the methyleneseries undergo , even in the form of salts and at the common temperature , a change which in the ethylene-series is observed only with the free bases and under the influence of a high temperature .
When hydrate of ethylene-hexethyldiphosphonium is heated , hydrate of tetrethylphosphonium and oxide of triethylphosphine are prominent among the products of decomposition , [ ( C2 )"(C2 I ) , p ] } 2= [ ( C2 )4 P } 0H +(C2 15)PO .
Di-iodide of methylene ( obtained by the action of heat upon iodoform ) imitates in every respect the deportment of the chlorine-compound with triethylphosphine .
The dibromide , on the other hand , which is formed by the action of bromine upon the di-iodide , acts in a perfectly different manner .
I propose to examine this reaction in a subsequent communication .
The action of tetrachloride of carbon , C Cl4 , on triethylphosphine gives rise to changes resembling in many respects the transformations which I have described .
On submitting tetrachloride of carbon to the action of triethylphosphine , I was surprised to find that the chloride , which resists with such pertinacity the influence of the most powerful agents , is attacked with tremendous energy .
A drop of triethylphosphine falling into tetrachloride of carbon hisses like water poured upon red-hot iron .
It is necessary to operate in vessels filled with carbonic acid gas , to prevent the inflammation of the phosphorus-base , and to accomplish the mixing gradually by using a dropping apparatus .
Or the force of the reaction may be diminished by employing the two liquids dissolved in anhydrous ether .
Here also the relative proportions in which the two compounds are brought in contact , influence in a measure the result of the reaction ; the presence of moisture likewise is apt to change materially the nature of the transformation .
Obtained in presence or in absence of ether , the product of the reactions is a white crystalline exceedingly deliquescent substance .
Submitted to the action of water , the crystals dissolve with powerful evolution of heat , giving rise to an intensely acid solution .
On adding dichloride of platinum to this liquid , a crystalline precipitate , very difficultly soluble in water , but soluble in boiling concentrated hydrochloric acid , is thrown down , which , on analysis , was found to be the formylated nonethyltriphosphonium-salt , ( C2 , H , )3 P ] " C9 H , ,4 3 Pt3 C19= ( C H)I ( C2 H , )3 P Cl,3 3 Pt C12 , L ( C2.H)3 P- ' which was identified by conversion into the corresponding iodide .
The mother-liquor of the triatomic platinum-salt gave , on evaporation , orange-yellow octohedra containing C7 HI17 PPt C14= [ ( C H2 C1)(C , H , )3 P ] Cl , Pt Cl , .
The liquid from which this salt had been deposited , furnished , on further evaporation , considerable quantities of oxide of triethylphosphine , which was identified in the form of the beautiful iodide-ofzinc-compound , ( C2 H)3 P 0 , Zn I described in one of my former Notes .
The interpretation of these phenomena presents no difficulties .
The existence of the hydrogenated radicals ( C H ) and ( C HI , C1 ) in the solution of the products of the action of C C1 ] on ( C2 H1)3 P , unmistakeably shows that these substances are only secondary products , which owe their origin to the action of water upon the compounds formed directly by the union of triethylphosphine with tetrachloride of carbon .
The chemical action of the water is proved , moreover , by the disengagement of heat to which I have alluded , and by the existence of a large quantity of free hydrochloric acid in solution .
I have not succeeded in obtaining the direct product of the action of tetrachloride of carbon on triethylphosphine in a state fit for analysis ; the extraordinary deliquescence of the product , and the impossibility of touching it with a solvent without decomposing it , have frustrated my efforts .
But here again , exactly as in the case of the diphosphonium-compound , the study of the products of decomposition leaves no doubt about the nature of the reaction ; it shows that the direct product of the action of tetrachloride of carbon on triethylphosphine is a mixture of two chlorides , viz. Tetrachloride of carbo-dodeca-ethyltetraphosphonium , r ( C2H 11)3P 023 11 P4 Cl = ci ( 02 115)3 P 01 ( C2 H , ),3 and trichloride of chlorocarbo-nonethyltriphosphonium , r ( C2 HO53 p P ' C^ IH , P , Cl , = ( C Cl ) , ' ( C2 H : ) , P Cl1 , .
L ( C 11)3 P The tetraphosphonium-compound , submitted to the action of water , gives rise to the formation of the formylated triphosphonium-salt , oxide of triethylphosphine and hydrochloric acid , ( C2H5)3 P"1 lv + { C H ) P~ H 2(CiV"15)3 1 C.+ }0 ( CH ) ( C2IH ) 1 ( C )3PO+PCl .
The chlorocarbonated triphosphonium-salt furnishes with water the chloromethylated monophosphonium-compound , oxide of triethylphosphine and hydrochloric acid , ( l ) ( C J-)I UP Cl , +2Il O=[((C1C)( , -IP]Cl1+2[(C 0)3PO]+2HC1 0(CclC)"'/ ( C9l2I)SPA C13 +2H 4 0= [ ( 01120 ) ( 02115)3 PI 01 ?
2 [ ( C20 5)3P0 ] ? ?
211 ] The experiments described in this Note , together with those which I have communicated to the Royal Society on a former occasion , prove that the number of molecules of triethylphosphine which , under favourable circumstances , can be fixed by the chlorinated derivatives of marsh-gas , is determined by the number of chlorine-equivalents which these substances contain .
These bodies need not , however , assimilate the maximum quantities of triethylphosphine represented by these numbers .
Thus dichloride of methylene is capable of fixing either one or two molecules of phosphorus-base , the formation of the ephemeral diatomic base being invariably preceded by that of the more stable chloromethylated monophosphonium-compound .
Similar phenomena are observed in the action of chloroform and tetrachloride of carbon .
The compounds which I have described as resulting from these reactions , are not the only products ; by changing the relative proportions of the agents , a number of chlorinated phosphonium-bases are formed so much resembling each other , that I have failed in separating them .
Nevertheless , by determining the amount of chlorine and platinum in the mixed platinum-salts obtained from these mixtures , I had no difficulty in recognizing the principle involved in their formation .
These substances stand to the final products of the reaction of the triphosphonium and tetraphosphonium-series in relations similar to those which obtain between the chloromethylated monophosphonium and the ephemeral diphosphonium-compound .
The results of these inquiries may be condensed in a few formulme .
The chlorinated derivatives of marsh-gas exhibit , in their deportment with the phosphorus-bases , the characters of hydrochloric acid .
The monochlorinated product has the saturating capacity of one molecule of hydrochloric acid , the dichlorinated product of one or two molecules , the trichlorinated of 1 , 2 or 3 molecules , the tetrachlorinated product , lastly , of 1 , 2 , 3 or 4 molecules : C H3 Cl = ( C I-I ) ' Cl. C H2 C1 , =(C H , C1 ) ' C -1=(C H , ) " C1 , .
CH C13= ( C H Cl2 ) ' C1= ( C HI C1 ) " Cl , = ( C T ) " ' Cl3 .
C ci , = ( C Cl3 ) ' C1= ( C C,1 ) " C12= ( C C ) " ' C1 ) , = Ci C1 , .
The action of chloride of methyl on triethylphosphine produces only one salt ; that of dichloride of methylene produces two ; chloroform is capable of producing three ; and tetrachloride of carbon , four salts .
MIonochlorinated Marsh-gas .
Molnatomic compound ... ... [ ( C H3 ) ( C,1 H1)3 P ] Cl. Diehlorinated Marsh-gas .
Monatomic salt ... ... [ ( C H , C1 ) ' ( C , H , ) P ] C1 .
Diatomic salt ... ... . .
[ ( C II ) ' C2 )3 P1 , Trichlorinated Marsh-yas .
Monatomic salt ... . .
[ ( C H C1 ) ' ( C,2 1 , ) P ] CL Diatomic salt ( C H Cl)t ( C2 115)3 C ... .
[ ( CC )":2 Hs)3 Pr ( ( C2 H ) Pi ' Triatomic salt ... ... ( C 11 ) " .
( C,2 H , )3 P C13 .
L ( C211)PJ 1o Tetrachlorinated Marsh-gas .
Monatomic salt ... ... [ ( C Cl ) ' ( C2 H)3 P ] C1 Diatomic salt ... ... . .
[ ( C C12 ) " 52 3 " C 2 , F ( C , 11H , )3 , P Triatomic salt ... ... ( C Cl ) " ' ( C2 H)3 P C13 .
L ( Ca H)3 P ( C H1 , )3 P-i Tetratomic salt ... ... Civ ( C2 H5)3 P C14 ( C2 Ju)3 11

