XII .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases .
" No. VIII .
Oxide of Trietlylphosphine .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 24 , 1860 .
In our former experimenits * , Cahours and myself had often observed this substance , but we did not succeed in obtaiining it in a state of purity fit for analysis .
Nevertheless , founding our conclusion on the composition of the corresponding sulphur-comnpound , and having regarcl to the analogies presented by the corresponding termis of the arsenicand antimony-series , we designated this body as the oxide of the phosphorus-base C6 115 PO= ( C2 115)3 P. I have since confirmed this formula by actual anialysis .
The difficulties which in our former experiments opposed the preparation of this compound in the pure state , arose entirely from the comparatively small quantity of material with which we had to work .
Nothing is easier than to obtain the oxide in a state of purity , provided the available quantity of material is suifficient for distillation .
In the course of a number of preparations of triethylpho'sphine for new experiments , a considerable quantity of the oxide had accumulated in the residues left after distilling the zincchloride-compound with potash .
On subjecting these residues to distillation in a copper retort , a considerable quantity of the oxide passed over with the aqueous vapours , and a further quantity was obtained , as a tolerably anhydrous but strongly coloured liquid , by dry distillation of the solid cake of salts which remained after all the water had passed over .
The watery distillate was evaporated on the water-bath as far as practicable , with or without addition of hydrochloric acid ; and the concentrated solutioni was mixed with solid hydrate of potassium , which immediately separated the oxide in the form of an oily layer floating on the surface of the potash .
The united products were then left in contact with solid potash for twenty-four hours and again distilled .
The first portion of the distillate still containied traces of water and a thin superficial layer of triethylphosphine .
As soonI as the distillate solidified , the receiver was charged , and the remaining portion-about niine-tenths -collected separately as the pure product .
To prevent absorption of water , the quantity required for analysis was taken during the distillation .
With reference to the properties of oxide of triethylphosphine , I may add the following statements to the description formerly givent .
This substanice crystallizes in beautiful needles , which , if an appreciable quantity of the fused compound be allowed to cool slowly , frequently acquire the length of several inches .
I have been unable to obtain well-formed crystals ; as yet I have not found a solvent from which JI-1 ; S)16 ; C 12 , &amp; ce It Phil. Tram .
1857 , p. 575 .
this substance could be crystallized .
It is soluble in all proportions , both in water and alcolhol , and separates from these solvents on evaporation in the liquid condition , solidifying only after every trace of water or alcohol is expelled .
Addition of ether to the alcoholic solution precipitates this body likewise as a liquid .
The fusing-point of oxide of triethylphosphine is 440 ; the point of solidification at the same temperature .
It boils at 240 ?
( corr .
) .
As no determination of the vapour-denlsity of any member of the group of compounds to which oxide of triethylphosphine belongs has yet been made , it appeared to me of some interest to perform this experiment with the oxide in question .
As the quantity of material at my disposal was scarcely sufficient for the determinaticin by Dumas 's method , and Gay-Lussac 's was inapplicable on accounilt of the high boiling-point of the compound , I adopted a modification of the latter , consisting essentially in generating the vapour in the closed arm of a U-shaped tube immersed in a copper vessel containing heated paraffin , and calculating its volume from the weight of the mercury driven out of the other arm .
Since I intenid to publish a full description of this method , which promises to be very useftul in certain cases , I shall here content myself with stating the results obtained in one of the experiments .
Substance.0 150 grm. Volume of vapour.49 1 cub. cent. Temperature ( corrected ) .
266 6 Barometer at 0.O .
07670 metre .
Additionial mercury column at 00 0 ' 056 , , These numbers prove the vapour-density of oxide of triethylphosphine to be 66'30 , referred to hydrogen as unity , or 4 60 referred to atmospheric air .
Assuming that the molecule of oxide of triethylphosphine corresponids to 2 volumes of vapour* , the spec .
grav .
of its vapour=1 4 =67 , when referred to hydrogen , and 4'63 when referred to air .
Hence we may conclude that in oxide of triethylphosphine the elements are condensed in the same manner as in the majority of thoroughly investigated organic compounds .
From the facility with which triethylphosphine is converted into the oxide by exposure to the air , evell at ordinary temperatures , and the very high boiling-point of the resuilting compouniid , in conisequelnce of which the vapour of the latter can exert but a very slight tensionl at the common temnperature , I am induced to thiink that the phosphorus-base may be used in imany cases for the volumetric .
estimation of oxygeln .
When a paper b)all soaked in triethylphlosphiine is passed ip in a uportion of air confined over mercury , the mercury immediately beginis to rise , and continues to do so for aboout two 1hours , after which the volume becomes constant , the diminutioni corresponding very nearly to the proportion of oxygen in the air .
To obtain very exact results , however , it wouLld be probably necessary in every case to remnove the residutal vapour of triethylphosphine by meains of a ball saturate(d with sulphuric acid .
Oxide of triethylphosphine exhiibits in general but a small tendency to unite with other bodies .
Nevertheless it forms crystalline compounds with iodide and bromide of zinlc .
I have examinied more particularly the iodinie-compound .
Oxide of Trietiylphliosphine and Iodide of Zinc.-On mixing the solutions of the two bodies , the compound separates , either as a crystalline precipitate or in oily drops which soon solidify with crystalline structure .
It is easily purified by recrystallization from alcohol , when it is deposited in often well-formed monloclinic crystals conitaining c 1 .
PO , Znl I -= ( C. 115 ) , P0 , ZuIl .
It is remarkable that this compound formed in presence of a large excess of hydriodic and even of hydrochloric acid .
Oxide of Trietliylphos.phine and Dichloride of Pla tfign.-No precipitate is formed on mixing the aqueous solutions of the two compounds , however concenitrated .
But on adding the anhydrous oxidle to a concenitrated solution of dichloride of platinum in absolute alcohol , a crystalline platinum-compoulnd is deposited after a few moments .
lThis compound is exceedingly soluble in water , easily soluble in alcohol , insoluble in ether .
On adding ether to the alcoholic solution , the salt is precipitated , although with difliculty , in the crystalline state .
The alcoholic solution , when evaporating spontanieouisly , yields beautiful hexagonal plates of the monoclinic system , frequently of very considerable diimensions .
The crystals have the rather complex formula C. " I( ) P 03 Pt2 I 8C1 3[((C .
1 Po : P01 + ( ( C 1-1 ) ; .
PC2 , 2Pt ( Oln mixing the colncelntrated solution of the oxide with trichloride of gold , a deep yellow oil is separated , which crystallizes with difficulty after considerable standing .
This compound is exceedingly soluble in water and in alcohol .
When the aqueous solution is heated , the gold is reduced ; the transformation which the oxide of triethylphosphine undergoes in this reaction is not examined .
Chloride of tin forms likewise an oily compound with the oxide : I have not succeeded in crystallizing this compound .
Chloride of mercury is without any action on oxide of triethylphosphilie .
Oxychloride of Triethylpho.sphine.-On passing a current of dry hydrochloric acid through a layer of oxide of triethylphosphine which is fused in a U-shaped tube surrounded by boiling water , brilliant crystals are soon deposited .
These crystals disappear , however , rapidly , the compoulnd formed in the commencement of the reaction uniting with an excess of hydrochloric acid .
The viscous liquid which ultimately remains behind , when heated loses the excess of hydrochloric acid , leaving anl exceedingly deliquescent crystalline mass , very soluble in alcohol , insoluble in ether .
For analysis , the new compound was washed with absolute ether and dried over sulphuric acid in vacuo , either at the common temperature or at 400 .
Three chlorine-determinations in specimens of different preparations , which , owing to the extraordinary avidity of this compound for moisture , exlhibit greater discrepancies than are generally observed in experiments of this description , lead to the formula C12 H30 P2 0 C12= ( C2 H5)3 PO , ( 02 H5)3 PC12 .
The dichloride of triethylpbosphine cannot be formed by the action of hydrochloric acid upon the oxide .
The oxychloride exhibits with other compounlds the deportment of the oxide .
It furnishes with dichloride of platinum the same platinum-salt which is obtained with the oxide .
In a similar manner it gives with iodide of zinc the iodide of zinc-compound of the oxide previously described .
Only once-under conditions not sharply enough observed at the time , and which I was afterwards unable to reproduce in repeated experiments a compound of the oxychloride with iodide of zinc was formed .
This substance , readily soluble in water and alcohol , crystallized from the latter solvent in beautiful colourless , transparent octahedra of the composition 012 1135 P2 0 C12 Zn2 12 = ( C2 1)3 PO , ( 02 IHA)3 PC12 , 2Znl .

