II .
Compounds Isomeric with the Sulphocyanic Ethers.-I .
On the Mustard Oil of the Ethyl Series .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. The results of my researches on the chloroform-derivatives of the primary monamines , which , as I have shown , are isomeric with the nitriles , could not fail to direct my attention to allied groups of bodies , with the view of discovering similar isomerisms .
In a note communicated to the Royal Society some months ago , I expressed the expectations which even then appeared to be justified in the following manner:- " In conclusion , I may be permitted to announce as very probable the existence of a series of bodies isomeric with the sulphocyanides .
Already M. Cloiz has shown that the action of chloride of cyanogen on ethylate of potassium gives rise to the formation of an ethylic cyanate possessing properties absolutely different from those belonging to the cyanate discovered by M. Wurtz .
On comparing , on the other hand , the properties of the methylic and ethylic sulphocyanides with those of the sulphocyanides of allyl and phenyl , it can scarcely be doubted that we have here the representatives of two groups entirely different , and that the terms of the methyland ethyl-series which correspond to oil of mustard , and to the sulphocyanide of phenyl , still remain to be discovered .
Experiments with which I am now engaged will show whether these bodies cannot be obtained by the action of the iodides of methyl and ethyl on sulphocyanide of silver .
" These experiments I have since concluded , but the hopes which I expressed have not been realized .
Dry sulphocyanide of silver is much less easily attacked by the alcohol-iodides than the cyanide .
The mixture , in consequence of the formation of iodide of silver , rapidly turns yellow , but the reaction is not completed without protracted digestion in the waterbath ; on submitting theproduct of the reactionto distillation , thewell-known sulphocyanic ethers , discovered by M. Cahours , are obtained .
The experirent was performed both in the ethyland the amyl-series ; the ethers thus produced , when compared with the compounds prepared by distilling sulphocyanide of potassium with sulphethylates or sulphamylates , exhibited the same odour , the same boiling-point , and in general the same chemical deportment .
The failure of these experiments could not , however , shake my belief in the existence of two series of bodies of the composition of the sulphocyanic ethers .
It was only necessary to find the method of producing the new isomers .
I was fortunate enough almost at the very outset to trace the right track , and I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society some of the facts established even now by my experiments .
These experiments are intimately connected with some of my older observations .
More than twenty years ago , when studying the action of bisulphide of carbon on aniline , I discovered a finely crystallized body , which in succession has been designated as Sulphocarbanilide , Diphenylsulphocarbamide , and sulphuretted diphenylurea .
About ten years later* , this compound again passed through my hands .
I then found that , when submitted to the action of anhydrous phosphoric acid , stlphocarbanilide was converted by the loss of 1 mol .
of aniline into sulphocyanide of phenyl .
The phenyl-compound has the peculiar pungent odour of the ethereal oil of black mustard ; like the latter it possesses the faculty of fixing the ammonias-so much so , indeed , that I did not hesitate to describe the new compound as the mustard oil of the phenyl series .
I almost wonder now that the experiments performed in the phenyl series , and soon afterwards also in the naphthyl series , were not even then extended to the ethylic compounds and their homologues the more so since the study of the action of bisulphide of carbon upon amylamine and ethylamine had , so to say , supplied me with the material for the inquiry .
When contemplated in the light of the recent observations , these experiments acquired an increased interest ; for I could no longer doubt that the reaction , which had yielded me the sulphocyanide of phenyl , when appropriately applied to the derivatives of methylic , ethylic , and amylic alcohols , would put me into possession of the compounds isomeric with the sulphocyanic ethers which I was anxious to procure .
Experiment has not failed to confirm my anticipations .
Experiments in the Ethyl series .
The general character of the action of bisulphide of carbon upon ethylamine I had examined when more minutely investigating the behaviour of amylamine under the influence of the bisulphide* .
I have resumed the inquiry , which has furnished me the following results:-On adding bisulphide of carbon to an alcoholic solution of ethylamine , the liquid becomes more or less heated , according to the concentration of the solution .
The liquid turns neutral , and yields on evaporation an oily compound , which after some time solidifies into a mass of splendid tabular crystals .
This compound fuses at 103 ?
, and then retains the liquid condition even when cooled to the ordinary temperature .
When gently heated , the salt is volatilized , partly , at all events , without decomposition .
These crystals are the ethylamine-salt of ethyl-sulphocarbamic acid .
2 [ 2a }N ]+ cs= ( CS ( CA ) HN i s1 L H2 NC+CS=[ H 2HN]ns The salt is readily soluble both in water and in alcohol .
Addition of soda disengages ethylamine , giving rise to the formation of ethylsulphocarbamate of sodium .
Hydrochloric acid decomposes the salt with separation of the acid , which collects in oily drops on the surface of the liquid , gradually solidifying to a mass of fatty crystals .
Excess of hydrochloric acid dissolves these crystals , bisulphide of carbon being evolved , and a salt of ethylamine remaining behind .
Under the protracted influence of heat ethylsulphocarbamate of ethylamine is thoroughly decomposed .
Even at the temperature of boiling water , torrents of sulphuretted hydrogen are disengaged ; the transformation is rapidly accomplished when the alcoholic solution is heated under pressure to 110 ?
or 120 ? .
On evaporating the alcoholic liquid after the evolution of sulphuretted hydrogen has ceased , an oily liquid remains behind , which also crystallizes after some time .
These crystals fuse at 77 ?
; they are likewise soluble in alcohol , *Proc .
of the Roy .
Soc. vol. ix .
p. 591 ( 1860 ) .
but differ from the ethylsulphocarbamate by their insolubility in water .
Hydrochloric acid dissolves them ; the solution yields , with perchloride of platinum , a light-yellow precipitate .
The new substance is diethylsulphocarbamide or sulphuretted diethylurea , the formation of which is represented by the following equation:[(C s ) " ( C2H~ ) uIN ] I si N2.S ) " [ ( 0211 ) iH2N ] , H}HS+ ( C2HI)2 } N2 On gently heating a mixture of diethylsulphocarbamide with anhydrous phosphoric acid , pungent vapours are evolved , which are condensed to a yellowish liquid possessing in a remarkable manner the odour of mustard oil .
When rectified , this liquid becomes colourless ; it boils constantly at 134 ?
, and has the same composition as the sulphocyanide of ethyl which is formed by the action of a metallic sulphocyanide upon sulphethylate of potassium .
The new substance is formed by the separation from the diethylsulphocarbamide of one molecule of ethylamine , which unites with the phosphoric acid .
( C Sj ' ( ) ( cS)/ ( I , )2 N2= 25 N+ N. ( C2 J}2 } ( C215 ) } In its properties , the new compound essentially differs from the known sulphocyanic ethylether .
The boiling-point of the latter is 147 ?
; the new substance therefore boils 13 ?
lower than the old one .
The powerfully irritating odour of the new ether is absolutely different from that of the ordinary sulphocyanic ether , which , though by no means agreeable , exerts no marked action either upon nose or eyes .
By far the most characteristic feature of the new compound , however , is the facility with which it acts upon ammonia and its derivatives .
Dissolved in alcoholic ammonia and digested for a few hours at 100 ?
, the ether is converted into ethylsullApocarbamide or sul2lhiuretted ethyl-urea .
( C S ) " ( C S ) " ( 015 ) }N --1113N = ( C211 ) 11 N2 ; with methylamine a mixed urea is formed , ( C Sy ( C i , )3 ( S)"N ( C ) ) } N+ H N= ( C 1 ) ( C-H ) N2 .
)H H 2J Ethylamine produces the diethylated compound which has served in the preparation of the ether ; aniline , lastly , gives rise to the formation of a mixed urea of the fatty and aromatic series , ItCS }CH ( CSI } ( C S ) } gjN IOG ^^N ( CJ T ) N+ IN=(c T()( N2 .
C21 1H H~ All these diamines are very crystalline ; they are weak bases which dissolve in acids , and furnish , with perchloride of platinum , yellow crystalline precipitates .
The faculty of combining with the ammonias , it will be remembered , is altogether deficient in the ordinary sulphocyanic ethers .
On the other hand , it belongs to sulphocyanide of allyl , or mustard oil .
In fact the new compound is in the ethyl-series what mustard oil is in the allyl-series .
I have on this occasion again perused the beautiful memoir of Professor Will on mustard oil , the indications of which have served me as a guide in my experiments .
So far as these experiments go , the parallelism of the ethyland allyl-body is complete .
For the present I must be satisfied to have indicated the formation and the principal properties of the new compound isomeric with sulphocyanide of ethyl .
In a subsequent paper I propose to communicate to the Royal Society the results of a comparative study to which I have submitted the old and the new sulphocyanide , together with the conclusions elicited by these researches as to the different atomic construction of the two substances .
In conclusion , I may be permitted to state that methylamine and amylamine , when subjected to the same treatment , have furnished me the analogous mustard terms of the methyland amyl-group ; the properties of these substances I have not yet more minutely investigated .

