XII .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases .
" By A. W. IIoFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and AUGISTE CAHOURS , F.C.S. Received June 13 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In a note on the action of chloride of methyl upon phosphide of calcium , communicated more than ten years ago to the Institute of France ( Comptes Rendus , t. xxi .
p. 144 , ad t. xxv .
p. 892 ) , M. Paul Thenard pointed out the existence of a series of bodies which correspond to the compounds of phosphorus with hydrogen , which may , in fact , be viewed as phosphoretted hydrogens , the hydrogen of which is replaced by an equivalent quantity of methyl .
It is now many years since M. Paul Thenard abandoned the study of the phosphorus-compounds , for the first knowledge of which we are indebted to him .
The unfinished state in which these researches remained , and the rich and abundant harvest collected since that period , in all the neighbouring fields of science , necessitated a revision of the subject .
The discovery of methylamine , dimethylamine , and trimethylamine , and of the corresponding terms in the ethyland amyl-series , had shown that the hydrogen in ammonia may be replaced by binary molecules , such as methyl , ethyl , amyl and phenyl , the newly-formed compounds retaining the basic character of the original ammonia molecule ; whilst the production of triethylstibine and triethylarsine had furnished the proof that the total replacement of the hydrogen in the indifferent antimonietted and arsenietted hydrogens exalts the chemical character of these compounds in a most remarkable manner , the methylated and ethylated bodies exhibiting basic characters scarcely inferior to those of ammonia itself .
It remained , therefore , to be investigated whether phosphorus , which by its chemical tendencies stands between nitrogen and arsenic , would exhibit a similar deportment .
It had to be ascertained in what manner the gradual entrance of binary molecules in the place of the hydrogen in phosphoretted hydrogen would change the character of the original compound .
Again , the discovery of the tetrethylated ammonium-bases had opened a new field of research , in which the corresponding terms of the antimonyand arsenic-series were rapidly brought to light .
It was indeed possible to predict with certainty , that an appropriately selected method would lead to the production of the analogous derivatives of phosphoretted hydrogen .
The time for resuming the study of the phosphorus-bases had in fact arrived .
We have been engaged for a considerable time in the investigation of this subject , and now beg to offer to the Royal Society in the following pages a short abstract of our results .
In the first place , we have endeavoured to obtain the bases corresponding to phosphoretted hydrogen , by a method analogous to that followed by M. Paul Thenard , simply substituting for the chloride of methyl the iodide , and for the phosphide of calcium the more energetic phosphide of sodium .
After many unsuccessful experiments , however , we were compelled to abandon this plan , which is quite uncertain , unproductive , and highly dangerous .
The question then resolved itself into the discovery of a method which would yield us the desired substances conveniently , without danger , in considerable quantity , and in a state of absolute purity .
It appeared that the action of terchloride of phosphorus on zinc-methyl , zinc-ethyl , &amp;c. , the remarkable substances discovered by Dr. Frankland some years ago , would enable us to attain the contemplated result .
Experiment has fully confirmed this anticipation .
The bases Me3 P and E3 P , the products of this reaction , which we propose to call respectively trimethylphosphine and triethylphosphine , remain united with chloride of zinc , and a simple dilution with an alkali is all that is necessary to liberate them .
3ZnCl , Me3 P+ 6KO 3KC1 + 3KO , ZnO + Me3 P 3ZnCl , E3 P+ 6KO=3KCl + 3KO , ZnO + E3 P They are obtained in this way as volatile oils , of a peculiar and strongly marked odour , and possessing distinctly basic properties .
We limit ourselves in this abstract to giving a synoptical table of the several compounds which have been the subject of our researches , the preparation and properties of which , together with the analytical details , are fully given in the complete paper which accompanies this note .
Mlethyl-series .
Trimethylphosphine .
Me3 P Platinochloride of trimethylphosphine .
Me3 P , HC1 , PtClI Binoxide of trimethylphosphine ... ... Me P 02 Bisulphide of ditto ... ... Me3 P S2 Biselenide of ditto .
, ... .
Me3 P Se Iodide of phosphomethylium ... ... . .
Platinochloride of ditto ... ... . .
Aurochloride of ditto ... ... . .
Iodide of phosph'ethyltrimethylium .
Platinochloride of ditto Iodide of phosph'amyltrimethylium. .
Platinochloride of ditto Me4 PI Me4 P Cl , PtClI Me4 P Cl , AuC13 ( Me3E)P I ( Me E ) P C1 , PtC12 ( Me3 Ayl ) PI ( Me3 Ayl ) P C1 , PC12 Ethyl-series .
Triethylphosphine ... ... ... ... ... .
E3 P Platinochloride of triethylphosphine. .
E3 P , IC1 , PtC12 Binoxide of ditto. .
E3 P0 Bisulphide of triethylphosphine ... .
E3 PS2 Biselenide of ditto ... ... E3 P Se Iodide of phosphethylium ... ... ... .
E4 PI Platinochloride of ditto ... ... ... E4 P C1 , PtCl2 Aurochloride of ditto ... ... ... .
EPC1 , AuCl3 Iodide of phosphomethyl-triethylium .
( MeE3 ) PI Platinochloride of ditto. .
( MeE3 ) PC , PtCI2 Iodide of phosph'amyltriethylium ... .
( Ayl E3 ) PI Platinochloride of ditto ... .
( Ayl E ) PC1 , PtC12 On glancing at the phosphorus-compounds noticed in the preceding abstract , a comparison of these substances with the corresponding terms of the nitrogen- , arsenic- , and antimony-series is unavoidably forced upon us .
Whether we consider the composition , or whether we review the properties of these groups , the most striking analogies , indeed an almost perfect parallelism , cannot be mistaken ; similar formulae , similar modes of combination , similar decompositions .
This analogy is particularly manifest in the compounds belonging to the ammonium-type .
In these remarkable bodies , nitrogen , phosphorus , arsenic , and antimony appear to play absolutely the same part .
It is more especially in the oxides of these compound metals that the analogy of composition induces a perfect identity of properties , and , indeed , of very salient properties , which may be traced in almost every direction .
If we were satisfied with the study of the reactions of these bodies , we should never suspect , in compounds possessing such a close similarity of properties , the presence of elements so dissimilar as nitrogen , phosphorus , arsenic , and antimony ; they might , moreover , be confounded with potassa and soda , by which they are scarcely surpassed in alkaline power .
Only the deportment of the hydrated oxides , under the influence of heat , distinguishes the derivatives of nitrogen from the corresponding terms of the phosphorus- , arsenic- , and antimony-series .
If we regard , on the other hand , the compounds belonging to the ammonia-type , we observe that the electro-positive character of the substances gradually rises in intensity from the nitrogento the antimony-compounds .
Thus , trimethylamine and triethylamine are not capable of uniting with oxygen , chlorine , bromine , and iodine ; a power which the corresponding terms of the phosphorus- , arsenic- , and antimony-series possess in a high degree .
Triethylamine unites with the acids producing compounds of the ammonium-type , and containing E3 N , HCI E N , HSO4 E3N , HNOG The corresponding compounds in the arsenicand antimony-series do not exist ; at all events chemists have not yet succeeded in preparing them .
Triethylarsine and triethylstibine combine only directly with oxygen , chlorine , sulphur , &amp;c. , producing saline bodies which have the composition respectively , E3As2 ... ... ... ... E3SbO2 E3 AsC12 ... ... ... . .
E SbC12 E AsS2 ... ... ... ... E3 SbS2 In the phosphorus-series , lastly , the two classes are represented .
Triethylphosphine not only forms compounds analogous to the salts of triethylarine , but also the terms corresponding to the binoxides of triethylarsine and triethylstibine .
We have in the first place the terms E3 , PHC1 E3 P , HS04 E. P , HNO6 , and in the second place compounds of the formula E3 PO2 E3 PC12 E3 PS .
The phosphorus-compounds accordingly hold a position intermediate between the nitrogen-compounds on the one hand , and the arsenicand antimony-series on the other .
It cannot , however , be denied that the phosphorus-bodies exhibit rather a tendency towards the arsenicand antimony-series , than towards the nitrogengroup .
This cannot surprise us , when we consider the close analogies which phosphorus and arsenic present in many other directions .
Both phosphorus and arsenic form well-characterized polybasic acids ; the acids of antimony are not yet sufficiently investigated , but the acids of nitrogen , which are better examined , are all found to be monobasic .
The equivalent numbers , too , of phosphorus , arsenic , and antimony , present a remarkable connexion , the difference between those of phosphorus and arsenic , and those of arsenic and antimony being virtually the samePhosphorus ... ... ... .31131.3 Phosphorus. .
31 ldifference 44 , Arsenic ... .
75 Antimony ... ... ... .
120 } difference 45 , whilst the equivalent of nitrogen stands altogether apart from the rest , The same relative position of the elements nitrogen , phosphorus , arsenic , and antimony , may also be traced in their hydrides , H3N H3P H3As H Sb .
Ammonia is a powerful alkali ; phosphoretted hydrogen unites only with hydrobromic and hydriodic acids , whilst in arsenietted and antimonietted hydrogen , the power of combining with acids has altogether disappeared .
In these hydrogen-compounds the gradation of properties is indeed even more marked than in their trimethylated and triethylated derivatives .
On comparing the terminal points of the series , ammonia and antimonietted hydrogen , we cannot fail to be struck by the dissimilarity of properties which at the first glance appears to limit the analogy of the two compounds to a mere parallelism of composition .
In the methylated and ethylated derivatives of these compounds , the intensity of the chemical tendencies in general is so much raised , that the gradation is no longer perceptible to the same extent .

