V. " ; Researches on the Colouring Matters derived from Coal-tar .
No. IV .
Phenyltolylamnine .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received October 19 , 1864 .
The discovery of diphenylamine amonlgthe products of decomposition furnished by the destructive distillation of aniline-blue ( triphenylic rosaniline ) which I have lately communicated to the Royal Society ( Proceedings , June 16 , 1864 ) , naturally suggested the investigation of analogously constituted bodies in a similar direction .
My attention has in the first place been directed to the study of a compound which , from its mode of formation , ought to be designiated as toluidine-blue .
When a salt of rosaniline ( the acetate for instance ) is heated with double its weight of toluidine , phenomena present themselves which are similar to those observed in the analogous experiment with aniline .
In the course of a few hours the rosaniline passes through all the different shades of violet , and is ultimately converted into a dark lustrolus mass , which dissolves in alcohol with a deep indigo-blue colouir .
This substance is the acetate of tritolylrosaniline .
By treatment with alcoholic ammonia , and subsequently addition of water to the solution , the free base is easily obtained , from which the several salts may be prepared by the usual processes .
I have examined only one of these salts , viz. the hydrochlorate .
Repeatedly crystallized from boiling alcohol , this salt is obtained in small blue crvstals insoluble in water , which at 1000 C. contain CII N Cl-C IIl)N HCI .
41 38 3 20(C I1 ) }31 The formation of toluidine-blue is thus seem to be perfectly analogous to that of aniline-blue .
C20 219 N3113 1130 }0 +3 ( C1)NIIHNNCC7II7}NI 3I N+C NC1N1 382 H3 0 }0 I have not examined in detail the properties of this new series of cololuring matters .
Generally speaking they are more soluble than the corresponding phernyl-compounds , and therefore less easily obtained in a state of purity .
When one of these salts ( the acetate for instance ) is submitted to dry distillation , water and acetic acid are evolved in the first place ; then follow oily products , which , as the temperature rises , become more and more viscid and ultimately solidify into crystalline inasses , ammonia being abundantly evolved during the latter stages of the process .
Unless the operation has been carried out on rather a large scale , a comparatively small amount of a light porous charcoal remains in the retort .
The oily distillate contains several bases .
Those boiling at a low temperature are almost exclusively aniline and a little toluidinie .
The principal portion of the products boiling at a higher temperature is a beautifully crystallized base which is easily purified .
By pouring cold spirit upon the interwoven crystals , a brown mother liquor containing other bases is readily separated ; the residuary substanice has only to be crystallized from boiliDg alcohol in order to procure a compound of perfect purity .
The chemical deportment of the new substance is very similar to that of diphenylamine .
Like the latter it unites with acids , forming salts of very little stability , splitting up into their constituents under the influence of water , of heat , and even by mere exposure in vacuo .
In contact with nitric acid the crystals at once assume a blue coloration , with an admixture of green , but nevertheless so similar to the analogous colour-reaction of diphenylamine , that by this test alone the two substances could not possibly be distinguished .
The two bases differ , however , essentially in their solubility , their fusingand boiling-points , and lastly in their composition .
The new base is far less soluble in alcohol than diphenylamine ; it fuses only at 87 ?
C. , while the fusing-point of diphenylamine is 45 ?
C. ; the boiling-point of the new base is 334-5 ?
C. ( corr .
) , at which temperature it distils without any decomposition , while diphenylamine boils at 310 ?
( corr .
) .
The results of analysis lead to the formula C~ llII N. 613 13N A hydrochlorate , crystallizing in little plates , and obtained by the addition of concentrated hydrochloric acid to an alcoholic solution of the base , when dried over lime , was found to contain 13 13 N , 1C1 .
Formation and chemical deportment characterize the new base as the mixed secondary monamine of the phenyland tolylseries , as phenyltolylamine* , GU 13 N=C7H 7 tN .
In consequience of the simultaneous existence in the molecule of the new base of the radicals phenyl and tolyl , its deportment .
under the influence of dehydrogenating agents became of considerable interest ; and indeed , having recognized the natuire of the compound , my first experiment consisted in suibmitting it to the action of corrosive sublimate .
Both substances unite to form a dark brown mass which , after having been heated , dissolves in alcohol with a magnificent violet-blue colour .
The compound thuls produced exhibits the behaviour of the colouring matters generated from rosaniline by substitution .
Owing to the peculiar properties of this class of substances , it would be difficult to prepare the new compound in sufficient quantity for a detailed examination ; but , judging from its mode of generation , it will probably be found to be tolyldiphenylrosaniline , C20 gH16 ( C6 115)2 N31 20 .
C7 1 17 A few additional experiments performed with phenyltolylamine may still briefly be menitioned .
Chloride of beruzoyl attacks this substanice , especially on application of heat .
The product of the reaction remains liquid for a long time , but , when appropriately treated with water , alkali , and spirit , it ultimately solidifies , and separates from boiling alcohol in well-formed crystals , ce I-Jo 1 C20 1117 NO17 h N , C7 1150 ) which are more soluble than the corresponding diphenyl-compound .
The benzoyl derivative is very readily converted into nitro substitutes .
In contact with ordinary concentrated nitric acid the crystals are at once liquified , and ultimately entirely dissolve .
Addition of water to this solution precipitates a yellow crystalline dinitro-compound , C6 o14 ( NO2 ) I C20 1135 N3 0 ?
=07 16 ( NO2 ) N , C7 -5 0J which is deposited from boiling alcohol in reddish-yellow needles .
Perfectly sim-ilar treatment converts the diphenyl body into a mononitro substitute .
Cold fumuing nitric acid , which when acting upon the diphenyl body gives rise to the formation of a dinitro-substitute , transforms the benzoylated phenyltolylamine into a nitro-derivative containing , according to an approximate analysis , not less than 5 atoms of NO2 Dinitro-phenyltolylbenzoylamide dissolves in alcoholic soda with a feebly crimson colour .
Ebullition of the solution eliminates the benzoyl atom in the form of benzoate , and on cooling small yellowish red crystals , C6014 ( NO2 ) C13 , 11 N3 04= C7 116 ( NO2 ) N , are deposited , which are easily purified by crystallization from alcohol .
Lastly , when treated with reducing agents , the dinitronated phenyltolyl-benzoyl compound is converted into fine white needles of a new base , to which I hope to return as soon as I shall have procured a somewhat larger supply of phenyltolylamine .
It scarcely requires to be mentioned that it is not necessary to prepare the pure toluidinie-blue for the purpose of obtaining phenyltolylamine .
It suffices to maintain for some hours a solution of ordinary but driod acetate of rosaniline , in its double weight of toluidine , in a flask provided with an upright condensing tube , at a boiling temr.peratLire , and to submit the violet .
blue mass produced to destructive distillation over a naked burner .
The distillate is treated with hydrochloric acid , and subsequently with water , when aniline and toluidinie , together with several other basic substances accompanying the phenyltolylamine , remain as hydrochlorates in solution .
The oily layer which separates generally solidifies , or may be purified by rectification .
The resulting crystals are crystallized from alcohol .
The same method is also adapted for the preparation of diphenylamine , aniline being substituted for toluidine .
If I have bestowed upon diphenylamine and phenyltolylamine rather more attention than these substances at the first glance appear to claim , I have done so in the hope of gaining additional data for the investigation of the remarkable colouring matters from which these bases are derived .
Both constitution and mode of formation of these colouring matters are still involved in darkness .
Theory , as it often happens , has not kept pace with practice .
The anticipation I expressed in a former note , that the study of the behaviour of the colouring matters under the influence of chemical agenits might disclose their true nature , has only very partially been realized .
Up to the present moment , chemists have not succeeded in giving a satisfactory account either of the atomic construction of these compounds , or of the mechanism of their formation ; and it would therefore scarcely be worth while to return to this question before its definite solution , unless the putblicationi of erroneous statements by MI .
Schiff had threatened to divert the researches of chemists from this subject .
According to M. Schiff * , the transformation of aniline into aniline-red by means of stannic chjoride is represented by the equation 20C6 117 N+ 10 Sn Cl2=3(C20 H19 N3 , HCI ) + 6(C6 H7 N , HCI ) + H4NCl+ 10 Sn Cl+4C6 117N .
The formation by means of mercuric nitratet by the equation 200C 117N + 20 IIgNO3=3(C20 H19 N3 , HN03 ) + 6(C6 H7 N , HN03 ) + 14 N , NO3.+ 1 OHg2 NO3 + 4CO H7 N. The latter process is accomplished at as low a temperature as 80 ?
C. , and , according to M. Schiff , is so elegant that he was enabled to make quantitative experiments .
" Within a few hundredths , " he says , " we have obtained the requisite quantities of the sought-for materials .
" M. Schiff 's equations are not conspicuous for elegance and simplicity , but they are absolutely inadmissible for other reasons .
These equations utterly ignore the very essence of the process .
I have pointed out , some time ago , that the formation of rosaniline involves the presence of 6oth aniline and toluidine .
Pure aniline furnishes no rosaniline , nor can this body be procured from pure toluidine .
This fact I have since further established by many varied experiments , both on the small and on the large scale .
The formation of rosaniline thus becomes the means of ascertaining rapidly the presence of toluidine .
The amount of the latter in crude aniline* may become so minute that its presence can no longer be traced by distillation , or by conversion into oxalates .
It may be recognized , however , with the utmost facility by submitting the mixture to the action of either corrosive sublimate or arsenic acid ; on application of a gentle heat the crimson colour is immediately produced .
In the equations proposed by M. Schiff there figures , moreover , amnmonia as an essential term .
The existence of ammoniacal salts in the crude rosaniline was pointed out some time ago by Prof. Bolley .
But this ammonia ( which , as I have satisfied myself , is scarcely ever absent ) is , according to my opinion , not an essential product of the reaction that gives rise to the formation of aniline-red .
I have established by special and careful experiments that appropriate treatment of a mixture of aniline and toluidine with chloride of mercury at a moderate temperature is capable of producing very considerable quanitities of rosaniline without elimination of more than a trace of ammonia .
The ammonia generally observed belongs to a different phase of the reaction , being more especially due to the almost invariable production of a small quantity of aniline-blue .
If we wished , even now , to represent in formulae the relation between rosaniline and the substances which give rise to its formation , the equation C6 17 N+207119 N=C201H19 N3+611 might be looked upon as an expression closely approaching truth .
The hydrogen figuring in this equation is eliminated in the form of water , hydrochloric , hydrobromic , hydriodic acids , &amp;c. But even this equation gives no account of the mechanism of this remarkable process ; indeed we cannot hope for the solution of this chemical problem before we shall have succeeded in splitting up the molecule of rosaniline into the atomic groups which enter into its composition .
It is true its transformation into anilineor toluidinie-blue , as well as into the several violets which are generated by the substitution of alcohol radicals , prove even now that the rosaniliine-molecule still contains three atoms of typical hydrogeni , and hence that the complex atom C20 H11 functions in this triamine with the value of six atoms of hydrogen ; but this indeed is the limit of the experimental evidence as yet obtained .
With regard to the number and nature of the simpler radicals into which the carbon and hydrogen atoms of the complex atom C,0 H[6 are grouped , we cani only speculate .
Derived from the radicals phenyl , C. ll .
, and tolyl , C7 H7 , under the influence of dehydrogenating agents , this complex atom may possibly contain the bivalent radicals phenylene , 06 H4 , and tolylene , C7 H6 .
( C6 H14 ) " ( C2011(6 ) 0716 ) " ( CAYI)t when the molecular construction of the three colouring matters might be represented by the formulae Aniline-red .
Aniline-blue .
Aniline-violet .
( 0 , 14 ) " ( C6 1 ) " ( C6 14 ) " ( C7 H6)2it " N3 , H2 0 ( C7 H6)2 " N3 , 12 0 ( C(7 H6)2 " N3 , H2 O ' 113 J ( 06113)3 J(02 H2)3 j We must not , however , forget that this is simply an hypothesis , and that the elements in the complex atom C20 H16 may be associated in a great variety of other groups .
An interesting observation quite recently made by Dr. Hugo Muller , and communicated to me by my friend while these pages are passing through the press , may possibly assist in further elucidating the nature of this class of bodies .
Dr. Muller has found that rosaniline and its coloured derivatives are instantaneously decolorized by cyanide of potassium , a series of splendidly crystallized , perfectly colourless bases being produced .
The composition of these bodies , which will probably be found analogous to a substance similarly obtained from harmaline by Fritzsche , remains to be established .

