III .
" Researches on the Arsenic-Bases .
" By A. W. HoFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 24 , 1860 .
In a previous note* I have shown the existenee of a group of diatomic bases , containing phosphorus and arsenic , which are formed by the action of monarsines on the bromethylated bromide , so frequently mentioned in my researches on the phosphorus-bases .
The idea naturally suggested itself to examine the deportment of this salt under the inluence of monostibines , with the view of producing the phospho-stiboniumcompounds .
The two bodies react upon one another , but only after protracted digestion or exposure to rather high temperatures .
The product of the reaction is complex , yielding a comparatively small quantity of a difficultly soluble platinum-salt of diatomic appearance .
I have repeatedly modified the circumstances and analysed the products in the form of platinum-salts ; I omit to quote the detail of these experiments , since they have failed to disentangle the difficulties of the reaction .
Some experiments upon the deportment of dibromide of ethylene with triethylarsine were more successful .
The reaction between these two bodies had been selected as a subject of inquiry by Mr. W. Valentin , to whom I am indebted for valuable assistance at the earlier stage of these researches .
Circumstances have subsequently prevented Mr. Valentin from carrying out his plan , and I have therefore to take upon myself the responsibility for the following statements .
Action of Dibromide of Ethylene upon Triethylarsine .
MONARSONIUM SERIES .
The experience gathered during the examination of the phosphorusbodies , enabled me to establish the nature of this reaction by a comparatively small number of platinum-determinations .
Bromide of Bromethyl-triethylarsonium.-To avoid as far as possible the formation of the second product , a mixture of triethylarsine with a very large excess of dibromide of ethylene was digested in sealed tubes at a temperature not exceeding 50 ?
C. Notwithstandiung the low temperature , the tubes invariably contained compressed gases ; the product of the reaction was treated with water , which extracted a soluble bromide from the ethylene-compound unacted upon .
On evaporation , a beautifuil bromide was left , which being copiously soluble in boiling , and sparingly soluble in cold alcohol , could be readily recrystallized from absolute , and even from common alcohol .
In water this substance is excessively soluble , and therefore scarcely crystallizable from an aqueous solution .
Analysis , as might have been expected , proved this salt to be the analogue of the bromethylated triethylphosphonium-salt .
It contains C8 H,1 As Br= [ ( C , H , Br ) ( C,2 H )As ] Br* .
The bromide of bromethyl-triethylarsonium , the composition of which is sufficiently established by the analysis of the corresponding platinum-salt , can be obtained in beautiful crystals .
Their form was determined by Quintino Sella ; it corresponds exactly with that of the corresponding phosphorus-compound .
Platinum-salt.-The solution of the previous salt , converted by treatment with chloride of silver into the corresponding chloride , yields with dichloride of platinum , splendid needles of a double salt , difficultly soluble in cold and even in boiling water , which contain C , H,1 BrAs Pt C1= [ ( C2 113 Br ) ( C2 EH ) , As ] Cl , Pt C1 , .
Compounds of Vinyl-triethylarsonium .
The bromide of bromethyl-triethylarsonium , like the corresponding phosphorus-compound , loses its latent bromine under the influence of oxide of silver .
If the solution of the bromide be precipitated by an excess of nitrate of silver , one half of the bromine separates as bromide of silver ; the clear filtrate mixed with ammonia yields the second half of the bromine in the form of a dense precipitate .
Nevertheless the reaction differs from that observed in the phosphorus-series .
The bromide of the bromethylated phosphonium , as has been pointed out in a former part of the researches on the phosphorus-bases , is almost invariably converted into an oxethylated body , its transformation into a vinyl-compound being altogether exceptional .
The bromide of the bromethylated arsonium , on the other hand , yields as a rule the vinyl-body of the series , the formation of an oxethylated compound taking place only under particular circumstances , in fact so rarely as to leave some doubt regarding the existence of this term of the series .
The bromide of bromethvlated arsoniulm , treated with an excess of oxide of silver , yields a powerfully alkaline solution , the nature of which was determined by the analysis of the corresponding platinumsalt .
Transformed into the chloride and precipitated with dichloride of platinum , this solution yielded beautiful rather soluble octahedra which were found to contain C,8 HS As Pt C13= [ ( C2 13 ) ( C2 -1)3 As ] Cl , Pt Cl , .
The analysis of this salt shows that the transformation of the bromethylated compound ensues according to the following equation , Ag 0[(CH , ) ( C 1)As ] 1 [ ( C2 H4Br ) ( C , H)3 As ] Br+ Ag O[(C2 i ) ( C2 s)3s ] 0+2AgBr .
The idea suggested itself that the vinyl-compound obtained in this reaction might be a secondary product resulting from the decomposition of an oxethylated compound of limited stability formed in the first instance , [ ( C , ,0 ) ( C H , )3As ] H [ ( ) ( C 5)3 As ] }0 IM H5 O ) ( C2 , O= 0+C2 ' T}0 .
It was with the view of avoiding this decomposition that in one of the operations the digestion was accomplished at the common temperature ; the result , however , showed that even in this case the vinyl-compound was obtained .
Nevertheless the oxethylated body appears to exist : under circumstances which were not sufficiently well observed at the time , the action of oxide of silver upon bromide of bromethylated triethylarsonium yielded an octahedral platinum-salt , which on analysis furnished exactly the platinum-percentage of the oxethylated compound .
DIARSONIUM SERIES .
Dibromide of Ethylene-hexethyldiar ?
sonizum .
The bromide or chloride of the bromethylated arsonium-compound is but slowly acted upon by triethylarsine at 100 ?
C. Two days ' digestion at that temperature had produced but a slight impression ; at 150 ?
the reaction is accomplished in two hours .
The phenomena now to be recorded presented themselves in the succession repeatedly observed in the diphosphonium-series .
The dibromide C , H3 , As , Br , =(C , lI)"(C HI:)3AsJ Br , yielded , when debromized , the powerful alkali C , , H , As 0 [ ( CH , ) " ( C , H)8Asl ' " 0 CIA n-gg 2bg\.f^ .
Treated with acids , this alkali produces a series of fine salts , amongst which the di-iodide deserves to be mentioned ; it equals in beauty the corresponding diphosphonium-compound .
I have fixed the composition of the series by the analysis of the platinum-salt and gold-salt .
Platinum-salt.-Pale-yellow crystalline precipitate , similar to the diphosphonium-compound , difficultly soluble in water , soluble in boiling concentrated hydrochloric acid , from which it crystallizes on cooling .
It contains 0114 ILAs2 Pt2 C16[(C2 / ( C2 1)3As C12 , 2 Pt C12 .
Gold-salt.-The dichloride obtained after separating the platinum in the previous analysis by sulphuretted hydrogen , was precipitated by trichloride of gold ; yellow slightly crystalline precipitate , soluble in hydrochloric acid , from which it crystallizes in golden-coloured plates .
The formula of this salt is C , H1 , As2Au , C1= I(C ) ( C2 13 1 Cs , 12Au C13 .
ARSAMMONIUM SERIES .
Bromide of bromethylated triethylarsonium , as might have been expected , is capable of fixing ammonia and monamines , giving rise to the formation of a group of compounds not less numerous than the bodies mentioned in the phosphorus-series .
I have been satisfied to study the action of ammonia upon the bromide .
Dibromide of Ethylene-triethylarsammonium .
Reaction complete in two hours at 100 ? .
The product contains the dibromide , C8 H122 As N Br2=-( H(C2 2 1 ) ) " 1N Br2 ; this salt is converted by oxide of silver into the stable caustic base C8 H4 As N O-[(C ' H2 ) " ( 02 1I )3 H As N ] " } 0O the composition of which was determined by the analysis of the platinum-salt and gold-salt .
Platinum-salt .
Needles , difficultly soluble in boiling water , soluble in concentrated hydrochloric acid , from which well-formed crystals are deposited , containing C , H2As N Pt2 C1 , = [ ( C , H1 ) " ( C2 )As 1 2Pt C1 22 c ol 2Ha Nj C12 , PtC .
Gold-salt.-Yellow compound precipitated from the dichloride obtained in the previous platinum-determination , on addition of trichloride of gold , soluble in hydrochloric acid , deposited from this solution in golden-yellow plates of the composition C , H2As NAu , Cl= [ ( C , H4 ) ( C , 11 , ) HGAs N ] " C12 , 2Au C1 , .
I have also made a few experiments on the action of dibromide of ethylene upon triethylstibine .
The reaction is slow , and requires long-continued digestion at temperatures higher than that of boiling water .
The tubes invariably contained much gas ; and the product of the reaction proved to be a complex mixture of several compounds , many of them secondary , which in no way invited me to a more minute examination of this process .
I omit to quote the few platinumand chlorine-determinations which were made , since they do not admit of a simple interpretation .

