I. " Researches on some of the Artificial Colouring Matters .
No. I. On the Composition of the Blue Derivatives of the Tertiary Monamines derived from Cinchonine .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 18 , 1862 .
The chemical visitors of the International Exhibition will not easily forget the magnificent collection of products displayed in the French court by M. Menier of Paris .
Among these compounds , equally remarkable for their variety and beauty , the large crystals of cyanine , rivalling in splendour and purity Mr. Nicholson 's acetate of rosaniline , have attracted general attention .
M. Menier , who has produced this new dye on a very large scale , has most liberally placed at my disposal some of the finest of these crystals for examination , hoping that their more minute investigation might perhaps lead to a method of giving solidity to this new colour , which in brilliancy and purity of tint is second to none of the several blues lately derived from coal-tar .
The composition of cyanine and its mode of formation having hitherto remained unknown , I have gladly availed myself of this opportunity of performing some experiments with this interesting compound .
I am sorry to say that , in a practical point of view , these experiments have failed entirely ; but my studies have led me to some observations on this substance which , as a contribution to the history of cyanine , deserve to be recorded , and which I beg leave to communicate to the Royal Society .
The discovery of the blue compounds from chinoline and its homologues dates as far back as 1856 .
In that year Mr. G. Williams engaged in a renewed examination of the base extracted by Rung from coal-tar and obtained by Gerhardt from the alkaloids of the cinchona bark , the identity in composition of which I had established in one of my earlier researches .
Among the numerous compounds of these bases most carefully examined by Mr. G. Williams on this occasion , were also their methylated and ethylated derivatives , one of which , the iodide of methyl-leucolylammonium , I had discovered when studying the action of iodide of methyl upon ammonia and its analogues .
It was in preparing this compound from the chinoline obtained by the distillation of cinchonine , and in separating the ammonium-base corresponding to the iodide by means of oxide of silver , that Mr. Williams first observed the splendid coloration which has led him to the discovery of the new dye now commercially known under the name of cyanine .
Precisely similar phenomena were subsequently ( in 1857 ) observed by M. von Babo , who produced them by treating chinoline with the sulphates of methyl and ethyl , and described the coloured substances thus obtained as methylirisine and ethylirisine .
Mr. Williams was inclined to attribute the formation of the blue compounds , in which he recognized distinctly basic properties , to a process of oxidation ; M. von Babo represents his methyland ethylirisine , although with very great reserve , by the formulae C11HNO , and CliNG Cll H14 2 02 and C13 H18 N2 02 .
No attempt has since been made to establish the composition of these singular compounds by a more minute examination .
In fact several years elapsed without any further notice being taken of them , until the development of the aniline industry revived the memory of these remarkable colour phenomena , which have since attracted the general attention of dyers and printers .
Mr. G. Williams showed that , among the several coloured compounds produced by the action of iodides of alcohol radicals upon chinoline bases , the one obtained by means of iodide of amyl is particularly rich in tinctorial power ; he has given a very interesting account of this new dye , and accurately described the mode of manufacture of this body , which , under the name of cyanine , soon became an article of commerce .
Unfortunately the tint produced by cyanine is less fast than beautifil , and the hopes entertained of the industrial future of the new compound has not been realized ; nevertheless the importance attached by dyers to Mr. Williams 's discovery is well marked by the fact of a gold medal , together with a prize of 10,000 francs , having been proposed for the discovery of a means of rendering stable the beautiful colours dyed by cyanine .
The crystals submitted to me for examination by M. Menier were distinct prisms , sufficiently well formed for crystallographical determinations .
They are at present in the hands of Quintino Sella .
Their substance possesses a beautiful green metallic lustre with a golden tint , by which , as well as by crystalline form , they are readily distinguished from acetate of rosaniline , which they in other respects much resemble .
The crystals are insoluble in anhydrous ether , difficultly soluble in water , but dissolve readily in alcohol .
The solution has a magnificent blue colour , with a coppery iridescence on its surface .
Addition of acids destroys this colour .
Ammonia and the fixed caustic alkalies leave the colour apparently untouched ; but it is now produced by a finely divided deep-blue precipitate suspended in the liquid , which may be filtered off , the filtrate separated from it being colourless .
The green crystals were found to be the iodide of a peculiar basic compound .
The iodine is rather firmly held in this compound ; but it may be precipitated from the alcoholic solution by oxide of silver , and .
exchanged for bromine or chlorine by treatment of this solution with bromide or chloride of silver , when the bromide or chloride corresponding to the iodide are produced .
The analysis of the crystals gave results indicating unequivocally the formula C3o H39 N , I , which received a close confirmation by the examination of a fine platinum-salt crystallizing in rhombic tablets , which is obtained by precipitating the chloride corresponding to the iodide , strongly acidulated with hydrochloric acid , by dichloride of platinum .
Nevertheless slight discrepancies between the theoretical values of the formula and the results obtained led me to assume the existence in the crystals of a compound containing less carbon and hydrogen , indeed of a homologous iodide , C,2 , H , ,3 N2 .
This hypothesis , not countenanced at first by the remarkable constancy which the composition of the iodide presented even after three or four crystallizations , was fully confirmed when the chloride was submitted to a systematic partial precipitation by dichloride of platinum .
After several repetitions of the process , the partially precipitated platinum-salt being decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen and the chlorides again partially precipitated , two platinum-salts were obtained , one of which , the less soluble one , proved to be the pure platinum-salt corresponding to the iodide with 30 equivalents of carbon , whilst the other one was sufficiently pure to show that it belonged in reality to the homologous iodide with 2 equivalents of carbon less .
The amount of the iodide C28 1H3 N2 I , which contaminated ( if the term may be applied to so beautiful a substance ) the iodide C30 H39 N2 1 , is , however , so small that its presence did not materially influence the analytical results obtained in the further examination of the compound .
The explanation of the formation of the iodide presents no difficulty ; this substance obviously derives from lepidine , C1 , H N , whilst only the slight admixture is due to the presence , in the original bases submitted to the action of iodide of amyl , of a small quantity of chinoline , C9 17N .
In fact Mr. Williams , in describing the preparation of his dye , distinctly states that the chinoline by no means requires to be pure for the purpose .
M. Menier has moreover kindly furnished me with a considerable quantity of the crude material from which the green crystals are obtained .
This proved to be a mixture of several bases , in which the presence of lepidine and chinoline was traced without the slightest difficulty , by the analyses of platinum-salts .
In the genesis of the new iodide two different phases have to be distinguished , viz. , 1 , the transformation of lepidine into iodide of amyllepidyl-ammonium , C , o H9 N+ Cs H , l I= C0 H2 N I ; Lepidine .
Iodide of amyl .
Iodide of amyl-lepidyl-ammonium , the condensation under the influence of potash of two molecules of the compound into one molecule of a higher order , 2(C15120 N I ) +K O=C30 H39 N2 I+KI+H2 O Iodide of amyl-lepidyl-ammonium .
New iodide .
It became indispensable to verify these reactions by the analysis of additional compounds .
The green crystals dissolve with facility in boiling dilute hydriodic acid ; the colourless solution deposits on cooling yellow needles of remarkable beauty , the analysis of which has furnished the values of the formula C30 H4 N I2-= C30 H39 N2 I , H I. 'These crystals are isomeric with iodide of amyl-lepidyl-ammonium , from which , however , they are distinguished by all their properties They dissolve in cold water without decomposition , but on addition of alcohol they immediately assume a blue coloration , the original monacid compound being reproduced .
The same change takes place at 100 ?
; so that in preparing the compound for analysis it was necessary to dry it in vacuo .
In the facility with which the diacid compounds are converted into the monacid salts , this substance resembles rosaniline , which , as I have pointed out in a recent paper , forms likewise colourless acid salts of little stability .
The green iodide dissolves with equal facility in hydrochloric and hydrobromic acid , yielding perfectly colourless solutions , and giving rise to the formation of well-crystallized compounds , which contain , in addition to iodine , respectively bromine and chlorine .
On submitting the green iodide in alcoholic solution to the action of chloride of silver , the whole of the iodine is separated in the form of iodide of silver , a blue solution being obtained from which the monacid chloride crystallizes , on slow evaporation , in green metallustrous sharply-defined prisms of surpassing beauty .
This salt was found to contain Dissolved in hydrochloric acid , tis salt furnished a dicid compound Dissolved in hydrochloric acid , this salt furnished a diacid compound which , on evaporation in vacuo , separates in long straw-coloured needles .
The highly deliquescent character of this substance has hitherto prevented me from analysing it ; but if there was the slightest doubt of this compound having the composition Ca0 Ho N , Cl2=C30 H39 N , CI , H C1 , it would be dispelled by the analysis of a fine-yellow difficultly solu .
ble platinum-salt crystallizing in small well-defined rhombic plates , which falls directly on addition of dichloride of platinum to the alcoholic solution of the diacid chloride , containing a considerable amount of hydrochloric acid , and which , by analysis , was found to be represented by the formula C30 H4o N2 Cl , 2 Pt Cl2 .
The gold-salt is obtained by precipitating the solution of the acid chloride with trichloride of gold , when a yellow , scarcely crystalline precipitate is formed , which , dried in vacuo , contains C30 HI0 N2 C12 , 2Au C13 .
I have , moreover , prepared the monacid bromide , which forms beautiful metal-lustrous prisms easily crystallizable ; the diacid nitrate as a crystalline network , on evaporating a solution of the base in nitric acid in vacuo ; and , lastly , the acid sulpliate , which crystallizes in white , well-formed rhombic tables , very soluble in water , but insoluble in alcohol , by which it is not decomposed like the other diacid compounds .
I have refrained from multiplying the analytical evidences by the minute examination of these salts , because I was happy enough to observe a reaction which supported the interpretation of the results of analysis in an unequivocal manner .
Remembering the simple scission which I had formerly accomplished by exposing the iodide of tetrethylammonium to the action of heat , when the compound splits into iodide of ethyl and triethylamine , I was induced to submit the green iodide to distillation .
The green crystals rapidly fuse into a blue liquid , the surface of which presents a peculiar coppery lustre .
On raising the temperature , decomposition takes place , and in the receiver is condensed a mixture of lepidine and iodide of amyl , the reunion of which to iodide of amyl-lepidyl-ammonium may be prevented by collecting them in hydrochloric acid ; at the same time a gas is evolved , burning with a brilliant flame and readily absorbed by bromine , and which could easily be condensed by passing it through a serpentine surrounded with ice .
I was thus enabled to collect enough of the volatile hydrocarbon to determine its boiling-point , which proved it to be pure amylene .
If the heat be carefully regulated , the amount of charcoal remaining in the retort is comparatively small .
The interpretation of the phenomena observed is given in the following equation : C30 H39 N2 I= 2C1 H9 N+ C5 H , l I+C Hlo Green iodide .
Lepidine .
Iodide of Amylene .
amyl .
Here , again , I have had an opportunity of proving the presence in the crystals of a small quantity of the homologous chinoline compound ; for on submitting , after separating the iodide of 'amyl , the hydrochlorate of the volatilized base to distillation with potassa , and collecting apart the first quantity of the basic liquid which came over with the vapour of water , this substance proved by the platinum determination to be chiefly chinoline , while the portion of the base distilling last proved by the same mode of analysis to be pure lepidine .
The results obtained in these experiments furnish new illustrations of the tendency to molecular accumulation by which the ammonias and their derivatives are distinguished .
Only a few weeks ago I had the honour of submitting to the Royal Society a short account of this class , which is obtained as a secondary product in the manufacture of aniline .
The coloured derivatives of the bases of the chinoline series present in their composition considerable analogy with paraniline .
Aniline series .
C6 H7 N C6 H7N , HC1 Aniline .
Chloride .
C6 HN C6 HN1 HC1 C6 H7 N1 HC1 C6 , H , N C06H7N C6H,7N HC1 Paraniline .
Monacid chloride .
Diacid chloride .
Lepidine series .
C,5 H19 N2H,0 C51 H9 N , HC1 Hydrated oxide of amylChloride .
lepidyl-ammonium .
C15 H , , NH2 01 ?
C1511 N1 C1 C15 H19 N HC1 C15 H19 NH20 C15 H19 N C15 H19N HC1 Free blue base .
Green iodide , monacid .
Yellow iodide , diacid .
I have written the formulae of the coloured compounds so as to bring out their analogy with the paraniline salts-in fact , so as to characterize them as para-compounds of the amyl-lepidyl-ammonium salts , but I am far from attributing to these formulae any other value .
In fact the molecular construction of this new class of compounds remains to be established by further experiments .
The theory which ( in 1852 ) satisfactorily represented the constitution of the nitrogen bases then examined , requires an expansion to include the tinctorial ammonias added to our knowledge during the last decade .
The time for the enunciation of this amplified theory has not yet arrived .
Here only a few experiments may still be mentioned , which were made with the oxide corresponding with the salts described .
The action of oxide of silver upon the iodide dissolved in alcohol liberates the base , which , on evaporation of the alcohol , separates as an indistinctly crystalline deep-blue mass , moderately soluble in water , less soluble in anhydrous ether , easily soluble in alcohol .
Ether precipitates the base from its alcoholic solution ; I have not examined it .
Submitted to distillation , the free oxide gives rise to an oily base , which I naturally expected to be lepidine ; but the experiments which I have hitherto made with this substance appear to negative this assumption .
I have undertaken a more minute examination of the compound , because , if it be different , its study will probably throw some light upon the still uncertain constitution of the tertiary bases of the chinoline series , which I have frequently attempted to decipher .
It remained now only for me to examine the mode of formation of the remarkable compound the nature of which I have endeavoured to clear up .
With this view I have studied the action of iodide of methyl and amyl upon chinoline and lepidine , large quantities of which were kindly placed at my disposal by my friend Mr. David Howard .
The products obtained in this reaction I have not submitted to a minute examination , having satisfied myself that their principal phases are well illustrated by the equations which I have given for the formation of the substances produced by the action of iodide of amyl upon lepidine .
Nor have I followed out in detail the complicated secondary changes , and more especially the generation of the red colouring matter which is abundantly formed in these reactions .
I have nothing to add to the perfect description of these phenomena by the distinguished discoverer of this pigment .
In conclusion I may be allowed to express my best thanks to M. Menier : without the magnificent crystals furnished by his ateliers , I could not have even attempted to clear up this question .
Though proud of her office as guide of industry , science acknowledges without blushing that there are territories on which she cannot advance without leaning on the strong arm of her powerful companion .
Joint labours of this kind cannot fail to seal the pledge of alliance between industry and science .

