1 .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
VII .
On the Diatomic Ammonias .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1859 .
In continuing my inquiries into the nature of the organic bases , I was led in the commencement of the year 1858 to repeat some experiments on the action of dibromide of ethylene llponl ammoni , which M. Clo3z* had published in 1853 .
The repetition of these experiments compelled me to contest not only the formulae of M. Cloez , but also the general interpretation which he had given to his results .
I have not hesitated to communicate my conclusions to the Royal Societyt .
M. CloMz I shortly afterwards discussed my observations , and pointed out the arguments which induced him to maiiutaini hiis formulae and his interpretations .
I have not replied to these remarks .
M. Clo6z having stated in the same note that he was still engaged with his experiments and that his inquiry was nearly completed , I discontinued my experiments on the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonia , fully persuaded that the chemist , to whom we are indebted for the first observation of this reaction , in continuing his experiments would arrive at the same results which I had myself obtained .
In discontinuing the discussion with M. Cloez , I was not freed from the obligation of proving the general thesis of my note , viz. the formation of diatomic bases by the action of diatoinic bromides on ammonia .
I have given the proof in several communications ?
addressed during the last two years to the Royal Society , and especially in a note 11 describing some new derivatives of phenylamine and ethylamine published during last summer .
The formation of these bodies , their analysis and their transformations , have , I believe , settled the questioni at issue in a satisfactory manner .
These researches have been the subject of some remarks on the part of Al .
Clo6z ?
, from which it appears that this chemist has interpreted my silenice as a tacit admission of defeat ; he rejects the formulae which I have given for the diatomic derivatives of phenylamine and ethylamine , and blames me for having continued my researches on the diatomic bases without having previously replied to his observations .
Under these circumstances I have been compelled to resuime the investigation of the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonia , and to reply , after nearly two years have elapsed without M. Clo6z 's paper having been published , to the series of objections which this chemist has raised against the theory of the diatomic bases .
Since this cointin-uation of my experiments throws considerable light upon this new class of compounds , I beg leave to submit them to the judgment of the Royal Society .
In order to render more intelligible the line of argument which M. Cloez has brought forward against the diatomic niotions , it will be useful to recapitulate in two words the subject of our controversy .
M. Cloez admits that in the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonia , the molecule of ethylene splits into radicals beloinging to three distinct groups , viz. the formic , acetic , and propionic series ; these radicals acting upon one molecule of ammonia , in which each of them replaces one equivalent of hydrogen , give rise to the formation of three primary monamines , viz. Formenalmline , Acetenamilne , and Propenamine .
According to the view which I defenid , the molecule of ethvlene remains intact in the reaction , acting upon two molecules of ammonia in which 2 , 4 , or 6 equivalents of hydrogen are replaced respectively by 1 , 2 , or 3 diatomic molecuLles of ethylene ; the dibromide of ethylene gives rise to the formation of three diamines belonging to the same family , a primary , a secondary , and a tertiary diamine .
Expressed in formulae the two views may thus be represented : Formulea of M. Cloz .
C2 H Formenamine. .
C21H13N=H } N. H ) Acetenamine .
C4 HS N= Et } N. Propenamine .
CC H7N i } N. Formula ?
of Dr. HIofmannf .
( C4 H4)J Ethylene-diamine.* It was by careful examination of the physical properties of the bases under consideration , and more especially by the absence of simple equations capable of explaining the formation of the first and of the third terms of the series , that I had first been led to doubt the correctness of M. Cloez 's formulm ; but I would not have expressed this doubt , if , on repeating the analysis of the first base , of formenamine , the slightest doubt on the subject had remained in my mind .
I did not at the time investigate the two other bases , and I limited myself to stating that the constitution of these bodies would probably be found analogous to that which I had experimentally established for the first term of the series .
Let us now examine the objections which M. Mloiz has brought forward against my argument .
" Accordintg to the hypothesis of 2M .
Hofmann , " says he , " the action of ammonia on the chlorinated and brominated hydrocarbons cannot give rise to theformation of chloride or bromide of ammonium ; the reaction consists simply in a combination of the two substances , without the separation of a third compound : it is a case of symmorphosis or addition , ( 04 314 ) C12+ 2H3 N= ( 04114)14 N , 2 HC1 .
Experiment proves , however , that the reaction involves the elimination of hydrochloric acid and the fixation of the elements of amidogent : apomorphosis and symmorphosis ae accomplished side by side , as indicated by the following equation : C4 4 C12+21-13 N=(4 H3)1H2 N , 110l+113 N , H101 .
" M. Cloez would be perfectly right if during the reaction no other base were formed except the first one .
But he forgets altogether that in the process under examination---exactly as in the mutual reaction between bromide of ethyl and ammonia-several other bases of more advanced substitution are produced .
The equationis which I give for the formation of these bodies likewise involve the elimination of bromide of ammonium , and in fact of considerable quantities of this compound .
2(C0 114)ff Br , + 411 N=(4 14)2 " 11 N , , 2EIBr +2 ( H3 N , 11Br ) , 3(4 114)tt Br2+ 61H3 N=((C4 14)3f ' N2 , 2 HBr+ 4 ( 113 N , HBr ) , The bromide of ammonium then , which separates in considerable quantity in the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonia , be , longs to the second and third portions of the reaction ; it has nothing whatever to do with the formation of the first base .
M. Cloez , as I have pointed out , does not admit the simple equation which I have giveen for the formation of this body ; he denies that it is simply formed by the union of the two compounds reacting upon each other .
According to his opinion it is produced in a secondary reaction , occasioned by the intervelntion of heat .
Mv experiments do not confirm this opinion .
A mixture of dibromide of ethylene and alcoholic ammonia allowed to stanid for some time at the ordinary temnperature , deposited a quantity of crystals , from which I was enabled to extract , without distillation , simply by successive crystallizations , absolutely pure salt of ethylene-diamine , as proved by the analysis of the bromide , the chloride , and the platinuim-salt .
In discussing the numbers which I have obtailned in analysing the hydrate and the hydrochlorate of the first base , M. Cloez quotes the results on which he founds his own formula .
A glance at these figures will show uninistakeably that they agree much better with my formula than with the one which he defends .
The following are the analytical details of our analyses , together with the theoretical values required by each formula : Formula of Analysis of Formula of Analvsis of M. Cloez .
M. Cloez .
Dr. HIofmann .
Dr. Ilofmann .
Carboni ... .
3P58 3112 30 76 30(67 Hydrogen 1052 12 77 12 82 12 97 Every experiimentalist has incontestably the first right of inter- .
preting his analytical results ; knowing , as he does , his methods , he will do it generally much better than any other person .
In the case before us , however , I believe very few chemists would have interpreted the results of anialysis as M. Cloez has done .
As far as I am concerned , I would always prefer to admit having lost 0'2 per cent. of hydrogen , to calculating a formula requiring 2-25 per cent. of hydrogen less than had been obtained by experiment .
I would prefer this especially in analysing a substance like ethylene-diamilie , attracting carbonic acid with the utmost avidity--a trace of which would very appreciably lower the experimental hydrogen-and containing so high a percentage of hydrogen , that the presence even of a small quantity of water woutld produce a somewhat similar effect .
The results which M. Cloez has obtained in the analysis of the hydrochlorate are not less in favour of my views .
He finds 128 per cent. of hydrogen more than required by his formula , whilst admitting my theory , he would not have lost more than 0-13 per cent. I have since examined several other salts of ethylene-diaimiine , and the results fully confirm the conclusions drawn from my former analyses .
It would be useless to quote these additional experiments , but I will mention the characteristic numbers furnished by the analysis of the anhydrous base , sinice the diminution of the equivalent exhibits in a more striking manner the differences between the theoretical values of the two formulae .
Ethylene-diamine retains the water with the greatest energy , and it is in fact only by protracted contact with metallic sodium that it is possible to obtain this body in the anhydrous condition .
I give the numbers obtained by combustion , side by side with the theoretical values of the two formulr- : Formula of Formula of M. Clo6z , Dr. Hofmann , Analysis .
C2113N .
C4118N2 .
Carbon .
4137 40a00 40V13 Hydrogen ... .
1034 1333 13 31 These numbers require no commentary .
It is not , however , in the results of analysis that M. Cloez finds the chief support of his views ; he quotes an observation which at the first glance appears fatal to the diatomic notions .
" But there is , " continues M. Cloek , " a capital fact ( un fait capital ) which completely settles the question at issue : this is the vapour-density of the free base .
" This denisity has been found by experiment to be 1 42 .
" The theoretical density calculatedfor myformula , referred to 4 volumes , is 1P315 ; the modifiedformula of M-l .
/ Iofmann , likewise referred to 4 volumes , gives the theoretical density of 2 699 .
These results appear to me decisive , and I do not hesitate to maintain theformula of the new series of bases , of which Ifirst pointed ouit theformation .
" I entirely agree with MI .
Cloez as to the importance of the determination of the vapour-densities , but I certainly arrive at a very different initerpretation of his result .
R In repeating the experimenit of this able chernist , I have arrived , as might have been expected , at exactly the same number .
But this number refers to the hydi-ated base , and it is easily seen that the hydrated molecule , when in the state of vapour , muLst occupy 8 volumes .
In calculating the theoretical density corresponding to the diatomic formula when referred to 8 volumes , we arrive at the number 1-35 , which coinicides in fact with the number obtained by experiment .
It is obvious that under the influence of heat the hydrated base splits into anhydrous base ( 4 volumes ) and water ( 4 volumes ) , C4 IIlo N2 02 = C4 118N2 + 2110 and that , instead of taking the vapour-density of the intact hydrated molecule , M. Cloez has determined the density of a mixture of anhydrous base and water , which on cooling combined againi , reproducing the hydrated compound .
And here I must recall the observations of several chemists , especially those of M. Bineau , of M. Kekule , and of M. H. Saint-Claire Deville , each of whom has had the opportunity of explaining the anomalous vapour-densities in the transitory decompositioni of the compounids submitted to experiment ; and I would quLote particularly a iuote by Professor Kopp* , in which this distinguished physicist has treated the question of anomalous vapour-densities in a general maniner .
In the case before us , there is a very simple experimenit , calculated to renmove all hypothesis from the above explanation , the determinationl of the vapour-density of the anhydrous base .
The experiment made with a substance the purity of which had previously been proved by analysis , led to the number 2 00 , which inideed absolutely coincides with the theoretical density of the diatomic formula C4 HI8N2 referred to 4 volumes .
This theoretical density is 2-07 , whilst the formula of M. Clovz , likewise referred to 4 volumes , requires the theoretical density of 1 00 .
The molecule of ethylene-diamine ( formenamine ) then , like those of all other well-examilned organic compounlds , corresponds to 4 volumes of vapour ; and the vapour-denisity of the base , far from militating against the m-rolecular value which I assignl to this body , ftirnishes on the contrary any addition-al and incontestable argumeint .
in its favour .
I Aun .
de Chern .
et de tharrn .
ev .
390i The preceding remarks are , I hope , sufficient to establish the formulaw of the diatomic ammonias upon a solid basis .
I will therefore only briefly allude to some results which I have obtained in studying the products of decomposition of ethylene-diamine , and which are not less characteristic .
Submitted to the action of nitrous acid , this base is decomposed with evolution of nitrogen ; in the first stage of the reaction an indifferent crystalline body is produced , and the final result of the process is a large quantity of pure oxalic acid .
The nitrogen evolved during the transformation is accompanied by a very volatile liquiid , the odour of which is somewhat similar to that of aldehyde .
At the time when I made these experiments I really believed the liquid to be aldehyde , but since I failed in obtaining the crystalline compound with ammonia and in transforming it into acetic acid , I abstained from mentioning this reaction in my note to the Royal Society .
I have now scarcely a doubt that the volatile liquid was the oxide of ethylene , isomeric with aldehyde , since discovered by M. Wurtz .
The transformation would be C4 118 N2+ 2N0 , =4N+C4 041 2+4 10 .
In preparing the ethylene-diamine for my experiments , I obtained as a secondary product a small quantity of the second base , which Mli .
Clo6z has described as acetenamine , and for which I now propose the term diethylene-diamine .
This base has exactly the same percentage composition , whether viewed as a diamine or considered as the monatomic acetenamine of M. Clo6z .
The analysis of the base itself , and of some of its salts , fully confirms the results obtained by that chemist .
But this base is no primary monamine ; it does not contain the radical acetyl , C4H13 , as supposed by M. Cloez ; it is a secondary diamine containing two molecules of ethylene .
Acetenamine , as conceived by M. Cloez , should be formed by the action of chloride , bromide , andiodideof vinyl ( C4H3C1 , C41 H3 Br , C4 H1 , I ) upon ammonia .
These reactions do not furnish a trace of the base in question .
But there is a more conclusive , proof of the diatomic nature of this body , the evidence of which will not be contested by M. Cloe6z , -this is the determination of the vapour-density .
Experiment gave the number 2 7 .
The diatomic formula , C8 1O N2 , referred to 4 volumes of vapour , requires 2-9 .
According to the monatomic view , a vapour-denisity of 1 45 should have been found .
The preceding experiments , although fixing in a satisfactory manner the composition and the equivalents of the two diammonias , do not unveil their molecular constitution their degree of substitution .
I have endeavoured to solve this problem by submitting them to the action of iodide of ethyl , a process which I have first used for similar purposes , and which has since become of geyieral application .
This process , moreover , could not fail to furniish a final decision between the two theories .
In considering with A. Clo6z the two bases as primary monamiiies belonging respectively to the formic and to the acetic groups , C21-I C4 H3 I-I SNE N , HJHJ it is evidenit that each of them must be capable of absorbing successively 1 , 2 , or 3 equivalents of ethyl , and of yielding three ethylated bases , two volatile , and onie fixed .
On the contrary , if the bases were products of the successive substitution of the same molecule for the hydrogen of two equivalents of ammonia , if they were respectively a primary and a secondary diamine , ( C4t 1-X 1 ( C , &amp; 114 , ) }T 112 N29 ( C4 I-14 ) 2 [ V2 j 1J the first of the two must likewise give rise to the folrmationi of three bases , whilst the secolnd onie would produce only two .
Experimenit has verified this latter aniticipation .
In submitting ethylene-diamine to the alternate action of iodide of ethyl and oxide of silver , I have succeeded in obtaining two volatile etnylated bases , and a third one , which is fixed .
These compounds are well defined ; their composition was established by the alnalysis of their iodides or their platinum-salts .
Represented as salts , these bases containSalt of ethylene-diammonium ... [ ( C4 H4)YI -16 N2jT 12 ' Salt of diethylated ethylene-diammonium. .
[ ( C1 114)Y ( C1 A115)2 114 N2 ] " ' Salt of tetrethylated ethylene-diammonium [ ( ( .411 .
, ) " ( C1 4 11)4 11I N1 ] " 12 .
Salt of hexethylated ethylenie-diammnoniium [ ( C4 II4 ) ( C4 Ii , ) N2 ] I , .
On repeating the same experiments with diethylene-diamine , perfectly analogous phenomena were observed , but the reaction yielded only one volatile base , which was immediately converted into a fixed base .
Analysed in a similar manner , and represented as salts , these bases exhibit the following composition : Salt of diethylene-diammonium.[(C.,11 ) " 2 114 Salt of diethylated diethylene-diammoniium [ ( 04 114)"2 ( 04 11)2 12 N2 ] " '2Salt of tetrethylated diethylene-diammonium [ ( 04 14)"2 ( C4 H5)4 N2]"t I2* The same result is accomplished , but in a shorter and more elegant manner , by substituting iodide of methyl for its ethylated homologue .
Already , at an earlier period , I have shown that iodide of methyl has a remarkable tendency to yield the last product of substitutionl .
Thus , on treating iodide of methyl with ammonia , the iodide of tetramethylammonium is alone obtained , together with a very large proportion of iodide of ammonium .
The action of iodide of methyl with the ethylenated bases is perfectly analogous .
The last product of substitution is formied at once in notable quantity , and may be purified by a sinmple crystallization .
I have obtained in this manner , without being embarrassed by the intermediate compounds , the iodide of hexmethylated ethylene-diammonium and of tetramethylated diethylene-diammonium .
These results require no further explanation .
In the present state of science we rely upon a certain number of conisiderations which guide us in the construction of a chemical formula .
These are , the stuidy of the origin of a body ; analysis ; observation of the physical properties , and especially of the boilingpoint ; the determination of the vapour-density ; and lastly , the examination of its metamorphoses .
I have endeavoured to look at the question u.nder discussion from these several points of view ; experiment has given invariably the same reply .
It follows from this controversy that the diatomic alcohols imitate the monatomic alcohols in their deportment with ammonia .
Ethyl alcohol produces , as is well known , three ethylated ammonias , the molecules of which occupy 4 volumes of vapour .
C411 , Ethylamine IH N=4 volumes .
11 C4 11Diethylarnine C4 115 N=4 voluLnes .
H ) C5 Hs Triethylamine CL H , N=4 voltumes .
In a similar manner we find that glycol , the diatomic alcohol of ethylene , the discovery of which we owe to the remarkable labours of M. Wurtz , gives rise to three diatomic bases , corresponding to 2 molecules of ammonia , and representing likewise 4 voluimes of vapouir .
( C4 1'1 ) " Ethvlene-diamine " CN=4 volumes .
( C. T-1It ) " Diethylene-diamine ( C4 [ ) " H N2=4 volumes .
1-12 ( C4 H4 ) " &gt; Triethylene-diamine ( C4Hl4)t N2=4 volumes .
( C.1 IJj " 9 , The two first terms of this series are the bases which M. Cloez discoveredl about six years ago , but the true nature of which he failed to recognize .
To complete the series , it remainis only to examinie the third volatile base and the oxide of tetrethylene-diammonium .
The observations which I have the honour of submitting to the Royal Society coincide in every point with the first note upon this subject which I presented nearly two years ago .
I have simply carried out somewhat more in detail the sketch traced in my former communication .
In conclusion I may state a fact which has also been observed by M. Cloez , viz. that the actioni of dibromide of ethylenie upon ammonia gives rise to the formation of bases not directly belonging to the series which we have discussed .
In searching for the method of purifying the ethylene bases , I have been obliged to examine also the terms of the other groulp ; but since these substances do not necessarily belong to this part of the inquiry , I omit for the present to enter more fully into their examination .

