I. " On the Action of Trichloride of Phosphorus on the Salts of the Aromatic Monamines .
" By A. W. IIOFMANN , LL. D. , F.1.S .
, &amp;c. Received March 3 , 1866 .
The starting-point of the following experiments was an accidental observation .
Whilst investigating the chlorine- , bromine- , and nitro-derivatives of aniline , I had prepared a large quantity of phenylacetamide by the action of chloride of acetyl on aniline .
From the hydrochlorate of aniline , abundantly produced as a by-product in this reaction , the aniline was recovered by treating the mother-liquors with hydrate of sodium .
During the distillation , after the greater part of the aniline had passed over and collected in the receiver , a tenacious oily fluid began to come over , adhering to the tube of the condenser and gradually becoming a crystalline mass .
It was easily purified by washing with cold , and crystallization from hot alcohol .
Beautiful white leafy crystals were thus obtained , fusible at 137 ?
, and volatile without decomposition at a temperature beyond the range of the mercury-thermometer .
These crystals are almost insoluble in water , difficultly soluble in cold , but soluble in hot alcohol , and also soluble in ether .
The solutions are neutral .
In acids the crystals are also easily soluble ; an alkali precipitates the original substance unaltered frora the solutions .
The hydrochloric-acid solution yields , with tetrachloride of platinum , a difficultly soluble crystalline precipitate .
The new substance thus exhibits the deportment of a well-characterized base .
Its composition was readily determined by combustion with oxide of copper , the analytical results pointing unequivocally to the formula C7 71 N as the simplest atomic expression for the new body .
But the whole behaviour of the substance , and more especially its transformation , by means of concentrated sulphuric acid , into aniline and acetic acid , leave no doubt that the above expression must be doubled , and that the new base is repre , sented by the formula Cl I-1 N2 .
This formula was confirmed by the analysis of the platinum-salt already mentioned , and that of the nitrate which separates from the solution as an oily fluid , gradually changing to a beautiful crystalline compound ; the former contains 2(C1 11 N , IIC1 ) , Pt *C1 , the latter C , l Hi1 N , , HN03 .
Whence is this body derived ?
and how is its formula to be interpreted ?
An answer to these questions was furnished by examining the chloride of acetyl employed in preparing the phenylacetamide .
When on distilling the chloride the principal product had passed over , the thermometer gra* Pt=198 .
dually rose from 55 ?
to 78 ? .
The last portion which came over was pure trichloride of phosphorus .
It was obvious that this substance must have played a part in the formation of the new compound .
I therefore submitted phenylacetamide to the action of trichloride of phosphorus .
The new body was formed , but in very unsatisfactory quantity .
The result of the experiment was essentially different when phenylacetamide and aniline in varying proportions were jointly submitted to the action of trichloride of phosphorus .
The amount of substance obtained varied with the composition of the mixture , and appeared greatest when the mixture was made in the proportion of one part of trichlloride of phosphorus , two parts of aniline , and three parts of phenylacetamide .
Hence the reaction had taken place according to the following equation : 3 C6 7N+3 C,8 H NO + PC3 =3 C14 H14 N2 + 113 PO3 +3 HC1 .
Perfectly similar results were obtained when a proportionate quantity of hydrochlorate of aniline was employed instead of aniline in this experiment .
The idea naturally presented itself to produce the same result without taking the trouble of preparing and purifying the phenylacetamide by including its preparation in the very process of forming the new compound .
For this purpose 6 molecules of aniline were added to 3 molecules of chloride of acetyl , and the dense liquid thus 'obtained mixed with 1 molecule of trichloride of phosphorus .
The result could not have been better : 6C , , N +3C13 OCIl+PCI3=3 C3 , HI N , + H3 P 3+ 6 HC1 .
A simple additional step and the true mode of preparing the substance , and with it the general method for the production of an endless variety of analogous bodies , was found .
Evidently it was not even necessary to prepare the chloride of acetyl separately .
The new body must be as easily obtained by the direct action of trichloride of phosphorus on aniline and acetic acid .
The mixture had only to be made in such a manner that , after transforming the acetic acid into chloride of acetyl , there was a sufficient amount of trichloride of phosphorus left to perform the rest of the work .
In this case , therefore , 6 molecules of aniline and 3 molecules of acetic acid had to be added to 2 inolecules of trichloride of phosphorus , 6C , H , N +3 CH2 0 , +2PC13 -3C 11 , N + , 2 13 P03 6HC1 .
The reaction is violent , and the operation must be performed with care .
The substances are mixed according to the above equation .
For this purpose three parts by weight of aniline are added to one part of acetic acid and into the mixture surrounded by cold water two parts of trichioride of phosphorus are slowly poured ; in which proportion the latter compound is in slight excess .
The tenacious fluid thus obtained is then heated for a couple of hours to 160 ? .
On cooling , it solidifies to a hard , friable , translucent , resinous mass of a light-brown colour , which dissolves in boiling water almost without residue , leaving only traces of an amorphous yellow substance containing phosphorus behind .
The clear filtered solution , after cooling , yields , on the addition of soda , a white crystalline precipitate , which requires only to be washed and recrystallized from alcohol .
The foregoing equations give a pretty clear idea of the qualitative and quantitative nature of the experiment , but they do not afford us an insight into the true mechanism of the reaction .
This , nevertheless , is a very simple one .
Trichloride of phosphorus acts water-generating and waterwithdrawing .
The oxygen required for this purpose is supplied by the pheliylacetamide ; as , however , the molecule of this compound contains but one atom of hydrogen belonging to the original ammonia skeleton , a molecule of aniline is required in addition to supply the second atom of hydrogen .
In this manner a diamine is formed , in which two atoms of the hydrogen of the double ammonia type are replaced by two univalent phenyl-residues , and three of the remaining hydrogen atoms by the trivalent group C2 H1 , to which the term ethenyl * may for the present be applied .
The new body would thus become ethenyldiphenyldiamine , the formation of which in the most simple form would depend upon the removal of 1 mol .
of water from 1 mol .
of phenylacetamide and 1 mol .
of aniline .
C , , j &gt; N -N N==1 + ( C6 HA )2 N , .
Hi 3H1 I-I H3 I was anxious to test this assumption by experiment .
At 100 ?
iodide of ethyl has no action on ethenyldiphenyldiamine , but at about 150 ?
the two bodies react on one another .
The mixture , after being heated for five or six hours , yielded , upon cooling , beautiful crystals of an iodide .
By treatment with chloride of silver this iodide was converted into the corresponding chloride , and then into the platinum-salt .
Analysis of this salt showed that the ethyl group had been once taken up .
On the addition of caustic soda the corresponding base was separated .
It is a thick oily fluid , which , when shaken with water , does not impart to it the slightest alkaline reaction .
By renewed treatment with iodide of ethyl an iodide , it is true , was separated , but it was proved on examination that the ethyl group had not been assimilated a second time .
In the sense of the above assumption , this nevertheless ought to have taken place .
The experiment was therefore repeated with iodide of methyl which is well known to act much more powerfully than the ethyl-compound .
This body attacks the ethylated base even at 100 ? .
The iodide thus obtained , when decomposed by oxide of silver , yielded a strongly lalkaline liquid , whence quantivalence of the residuary group again increases , the groups becoming quadri .
valent and quintivalent , and acquiring the terminations in and inyl , &amp;c. According to this principle the following names are formed : Methane , ( C H4 )o Sextane , ( C6 H14 ) ?
Ethane , ( C2 He )o Septane , ( C , H116 ) Propane , ( C3 H8 )o Octane , ( C8 HI18 ) Quartane , ( C4 Hio)0 Nonane , ( C9 IH20 ) Quintane , ( C5 H112 ) Decane , ( CIo H22 ) ?
And further : Methane , ( C H1)J 'Ethane , ( C20 1)0 Propane , ( Ca H8 ) ?
Quartane , ( I H10 ) ?
Methyl , ( C H13 ) Ethyl .
( C2 H5 ) ' Propyl , ( C H ) ' Quartyl , ( C4 1 , ) ' Methene , ( C 12 ) " Ethene , ( C21 ) " Propene , ( C311H ) " Quartene , ( C4s ) " Methenyl , ( C H ) " ' Ethenyl , ( C2 ) " ' Propenyl , ( Ca { O ) " ' Quartenyl , ( C4H ) " ' Ethine , ( C2 H2)iV Propine , ( C3 H)iv Quartine , ( C 116)iV Ethinyl , ( C0 I7 Propinyl , ( C 1H3 ) V Quartinyl , ( 04 H)V Propone , ( C3 H2 ) , i Quartone , ( 04 4)vi Proponyl , ( Ca I{)vii Quartonyl , ( C4 113)ii Quartune , ( O4 I2)viii Quartunyl , ( C4 H )i This is not the place to develope this subject further .
The short notice I have given must suffice .
A superficial examination of the system shows , however , how large a number of groups of atoms may be clearly and succinctly expressed in it .
It appeared convenient to submit the plan to a provisional test by framing some of the names required for the substances which were furnished by the above experiments .
Bodies containing oxygen may be as simply nominated according to this plan .
The acid derived from ethylic alcohol is ethoxylic acid ( acetic acid ) , the first acid corresponding to ethenic alcohol would be etho.xenic acid ( glycolic acid ) , the second being ethdioxenic acid ( oxalic acid ) .
We speak of the oxylic , oxenic , and dioxenic acids of a series , of the quartane series , for inlstance , and any one would understand that by these expressions are meant butyric , butylactic , and succinic acids .
it was at once inferred that the methyl group had been added to the ethyl group already present in the substance .
This conclusion was amply corroborated by the analysis of the platinum-salt precipitated from the liquid .
By this experiment the nature of ethenyldiphenyldiamine is most satistorily elucidated .
The action of iodide of ethyl had converted this base into the tertiary diamine ethenylethyldiphenyldiamine , ( C2 H3 ) ; ( C2115 ) N2 ; ( C6 11)2 J the latter , under the influence of iodide of methyl , yielding the compound [ ( C2 113 ) " ' ( C2 11 ) ( C6 Ha ) &gt; N2 ] ( C H3 ) } , which is soluble in water with a strongly-marked alkaline reaction .
The stability of ethenyldiphenyldiamine is remarkable .
As I have already mentioned , this base distils at a very high temperature without decomposition .
It is moreover scarcely attacked by fision with hydrate of potassium .
Concentrated sulphuric acid , on the other hand , decomposes it easily .
When gently heated , the solution of ethenyldiphenyldiamine in sulphuric acid evolves acetic acid , and , on addition of water , the slightly-coloured liquid solidifies to a white crystalline mass of sulphanilic acid , ( 0 211)2 }H 11C2 r0C io5 ( C s)2 N 2+2H SO= 3 o+2 HN 83 RH H It need scarcely be mentioned that , by reactions similar to that of trichloride of phosphorus on acetate of aniline , an almost endless variety of new compounds may be obtained .
By changing the acid , or base , or both , a series of substances is formed , the composition of which in each case is fixed in advance by theory .
I have worked only very little in this direction .
Toluidine acts in a manner precisely similar to that of aniline .
The base formed can scarcely be distinguished from the phenyl base .
Analysis of the platinum-salt has led to the formula ( C2 ) " ' ) 16 I,18 N2= ( C , H7)2 N2 .
With naphthylamine the reaction is less smooth .
The product obtained by acting with 1 molecule of trichloride of phosphorus on 3 molecules of chloride of acetyl and 6 molecules of naphthylamine , was an unenjoyably viscous scarcely crystalline mass which retained , after repeated solution and precipitation , its amorphous character .
An analysis of the platinumsalt led , however , to the formula ( C2 1H3 ) " C22 1 N2= ( CO 117)2 N2 .
toluidine , and naphthylamine being primary monamines , it seemed of interest also to extend the examination to a secondary one .
For this purpose I selected diphenylamine .
When a mixture of diphenylamine and phenylacetamide , in the proportion of their molecular weights , was submitted to the action of trichloride of phosphorus , the reaction took place in the ordinary way , but the mass precipitated from the solution of the chloride by ammonia could not be crystallized .
It had therefore to be analyzed as platinum-salt .
Determination of the platinum as well as combustion showed , however , that the expected ethenyltriphenyldiacmine had been formed , C2 1130 C6 1-5 N ( C2 13 ) " C , H1 N+C , H+ N= 0+ ( ( , .
) , 2 N.2 , II~J ( C( J-J- ) J An entirely unexpected result , on the other hand , was obtained by the action of triclloride of phosphorus on a mixture of acetic acid and methylaniline .
Working , as I did , exclusively with a secondary monamine , I had expected to see the reaction take place according to the following equation:rCi3 Oc io-1 ( C2 113 ) " 3 C6JI , N+2 }0=2 1O +(C H3)3 N3 .
L IH ( C 115 J_3 But this was not the case ; the action was found to have been very irregular ; and amongst the products a chloride was observed , the base of which , when liberated by oxide of silver , dissolved in water with an alkaline reaction .
When analyzed in the form of a platinum salt , this body proved to be ethenyldiphenyldiamlinie , which had twice appropriated the methyl-group , having the composition [ ( C2 H , ) " ( C , Hii , ) ( C H3 ) N , ] C HI , In this case evidently chloride of methyl had been eliminated from one of the molecules of mietliylaniline , which , acting on the ethenyldiphenylmethyldiatnine , had given rise to the formation of the chloride corresponding to the above-mentioned oxide , 2[(C , H1 ) ( C H13 ) HN ] + C2 I3 0 C1= -110 + [ ( C , I- , ) ' " ( C , II ) , ( C HI ) N , ] ( C 11 ) Cl. A few experiments made with the derivatives of valeric and benzoic acids are still to be mentioned .
Quintenyldiphenyldiamine.-For the preparation of this substance , 3 molecules of valeric acid were miixed with 6 molecules of aniline , and to the liquid , after cooling , 2 molecules of trichloride of phosphorus were added .
This mixture , on being submitted for a couple of hours to a temperature of 150 ?
, yielded a viscous mass soluble in water .
Fromn the solution hydrate of sodium precipitated a crystalline base almost insoluble in water , which was recrystallized from alcohol .
This substance fused at 1 11 ? .
The com bustion of the body and the analysis of its platinum-salt , which crystallized in rhombic plates difficultly soluble in water and almost insoluble in alcohol , led to the formula ( C , H1 ) " ' CG7 -20 N2 =(C6 HJ ) N2 .
H Benzyldiphenyldiamine.-By substituting benzoic acid for valeric acid in the reaction just described , the corresponding benzyl-compound is obtained .
I have prepared this substance by the action of 1 molecule of trichloride of phosphorus on a mixture of 3 molecules of phenylbenzamide and 3 molecules of hydrochlorate of aniline .
The reaction takes place in the ordinary way .
The product is a very weak base crystallizing in fine silky needles .
The hydrochlorate forms thin brilliant plates difficultly soluble in water , which upon re-crystallization lose their acid .
The analysis led to the formula ( C7 )'1 C19 Uo16 N2=(C6 HUE , )2 &gt; N2 .
HJ This compound has been already observed by Gerhardt .
He obtained it whilst examining the action of pentachloride of phosphorus on the amides , the last experiments which he performed before his death .
A short notice of this investigation , found after his death , has been published by M. Cahours * .
The phenyl-compounds of the acetic and valeric groups above described are naturally linked with a compound which several years ago I procured by an essentially different reaction .
This substance , which at the time I described under the name of formyldiphenyldiaminet , but to which , in accordance with my present ideas on nomenclature , I would give the name methenyldiphenyldiamine , is obtained by the action of chloroform on aniline ; its relation to the compounds before mentioned is seen by a glance at the following formule:(C T1 ) ' " Methenyldiphenyldiamine , C13 H1 N2= ( C6 T1s ) N2 .
( C , H1 Ethenyldiphenyldiamine , C , , IH , N= ( C , HI)2 N , .
HJ ( C5 J1 ) " ) Quintenyldiphenyldiamine , C7 HI0 N2 =(C6 II)2 N , .
It seemed worth while to establish by a special experiment the analogy of methenyldiphenyldiamine , obtained in so different a reaction , with the substances just described .
For this purpose I submitted phenylform* Ann. Ch. Phys. [ 3 ] , vol. liii .
p. 302 .
t Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. ix .
p. 229 .
61 amide* to the action of a mixture of aniline and trichloride of phosphorus .
The result proved that the methenyl-compound can be thus prepared even more easily than by means of chloroform .
In conclusion , the relation must be mentioned which the compounds just described hear to the base obtained by Professor Strecker t , when acting with gaseous hydrochloric acid on acetamide , The body thus formed is C2 H , N2 ( C2 3)i } N2 , H3 ~ , and has been called acediamine , for which name , in accordance with the proposed nomenclature , I would now substitute the term ethenyldiamine .
When compared with the analogous aniline-compound , the very slight stability of acediamine , which splits up with the greatest facility into acetic acid and ammonia , deserves to be noticed .
A quintenyldiamine , corresponding to the quintenyldiphenyldiamine , has not as yet been prepared .
Methenyldiamine , on the other hand , is known , although the compound which I have in view has scarcely been looked upon as such .
The body in question is no other than cyanide of ammonium .
( C I[ ) " ' t ) Methenyl(C I)m } Methenyldiamine ( C H it Methenyl(C H)'N ( Cyanide of ammonium ) dieny ( Ce 5)2 HJ diamine H The facility with which this substance decomposes is well known ; amongst the productsformic acid and ammonia are invariably found .
It is further known that by heating ammonia with chloroform ( trichloride of methenyl ) , cyanide of ammonium is formed , a reaction which is perfectly similar to that by which the analogous phenyl-base was originally obtained in the corresponding experiment with aniline .
In conclusion , I beg to thank Messrs. Tingle and Fischer for their valuable assistance during the performance of the experiments described .

