II .
" Contributions towards the History of Thiobenzamide .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 27 , 1870 .
When a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through a solution of benzonitrile in alcoholic ammonia , the liquid , after the lapse of a few hours , deposits fine yellow needles , which are the thiobenzamide , C7115 S C7 H7 NS= H N , HJ discovered by M. Cahours .
It can be obtained in a pure state by recrystallization from boiling water .
When a cold saturated alcoholic solution of this body is mixed with an alcoholic solution of iodine , the latter is immediately decolorized with separation of sulphur .
If the addition of iodine solution be continued until even after a short boiling free iodine remains , which can readily be detected by starch-paste , the solution filtered from the sulphur , and poured into water , solidifies to a mass of white interlaced needles , which can readily be freed from adhering hydriodic acid by washing with cold water .
This substance can be obtained pure by repeated crystallization from boiling alcohol .
In this state it forms long shining snow-white needles , which melt at 90 ?
, and distil without decomposition at a very high temperature .
The compound also dissolves in ether , chloroform , and benzol .
At first I believed it to be free from sulphur .
Its alcoholic solution can be * Hofmann , Berichte der Chem. Gesellsch .
z. Berlin , ITI .
268 .
499 boiled for hours with a lead salt and an alkali without the formation of lead sulphide ; also , after treating with moderately concentrated nitric acid , the sulphur contained in the body remains unchanged .
Only after several days ' boiling with alcoholic soda , the sulphur separates as sodium sulphide , and as it appears sodium hyposulphite .
The determination of the sulphur , however , offers no difficulty when the vapour of the compound is passed over a red-hot mixture of nitre and sodium carbonate .
The careful analysis of the new crystals leads to the formula C14 110 N2 S. They are consequently derived from two molecules of thiobenzamide from which one atom of sulphur and four atoms of hydrogen have been removed , the latter in the form of hydriodic acid , 2C7 H7 NS + 211 ==C14 J0 NS+ 4HI + S. Chlorine , bromine , and moderately diluted nitric acid act upon thiobenzamide in the same way as iodine .
These reagents , however , are not to be recommended for the preparation of the new compound , as the action easily goes too far , causing the formation of chlorinated , brominated , and nitro-products , which contaminate the normal compound .
In fact , Mr. Richard Dunklenberg , whilst studying thiobenzamide last summer in the Berlin Laboratory , has had already in his hands the new sulphuretted compound ; but as he employed bromine for its preparation , the substance was obtained in a less pure state , and consequently he did not succeed in interpreting the reaction .
With regard to the constitution of the new body , it may be considerec as consisting of two molecules of benzonitrile , which are held together directly by the sulphur .
Different views may be taken of the arrangement of the atoms in the molecule .
Probably the carbon atoms outside the phenyl group are joined together by the sulphur ; and there is then also connexion between the nitrogen atoms .
This latter supposition is strengthened by the behaviour of the crystals with nascent hydrogen , described below .
But I will not go further into this question at present , since the prosecution of the new reaction in other series promises to yield further experimental data for a profitable discussion of the subject .
For the same reason , I refrain at present from proposing a name for the new sulphur-compound .
The stability of this substance is remarkable .
It can be heated for a long time to 150 ?
in sealed tubes with hydrochloric acid , dilute sulphuric acid , and even moderately strong nitric acid , without undergoing decomposition .
It dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid by the aid of a gentle heat , and the addition of water precipitates it again unchanged .
The compound is decomposed rather more readily by alkalies , although , as already mentioned , it is necessary , even in this case , to boil for days .
In this case benzoic acid is reproduced with slow evolution of ammonia .
Evidently the sulphur here first separates from the molecule , and is dis solved in the ordinary manner by the alkali ; the benzonitrile set free at the same time yields ammonia and benzoic acid .
The separated acid , which was recognized as benzoic acid by the sparing solubility of its sodium salt , was further identified by a determination of its melting-point and an analysis of the silver salt .
The sulphur-compound suffers a very interesting change by the action of nascent hydrogen .
I have already called attention to the fact how much more readily the thioamides are converted into the corresponding amine bases than the nitriles .
This experience has again been verified in the new body .
When its alcoholic solution is decomposed by zinc and hydrochloric acid , sulphuretted hydrogen is evolved in abundance .
After ten or twelve hours the total decomposition of the sulphur-compound is recognized by the addition of water no longer producing any precipitate in the alcoholic solution .
The new product is collected and purified by a process repeatedly proved to be successful ; the addition of an excess of alkali until the zinc hydrate at first thrown down is redissolved leaves the base in the supernatant alcoholic layer .
After evaporation of the alcohol , the base still containing fixed alkali is dissolved in ether , and withdrawn from this by hydrochloric acid , whereby a small quantity of brown resin is separated and remains dissolved in the ether .
On evaporating the hydrochloric solution on the water-bath , the hydrochlorate of the base is left behind as an oil , which in a short time solidifies to a mass of indistinct crystals .
When the aqueous solution of this salt is decomposed by ammonia , oily drops immediately separate and sink to the bottom ; in the course of a day these solidify to a crystalline mass , the supernatant fluid being filled with iridescent plates .
The analysis of the hydrochlorate , purified by recrystallization from water , and dried at 100 ?
, which it can be without change , leads to the formula C14 I-N , Nl= C1 1C N2 , HC1 , which was satisfactorily confirmed by a determination of the crystalline platinum salt dried at 100 ?
, containing C2 , HI , N4 PtC16 = 2(C14 H4 N2 , HC1 ) , PtCl4 .
In the formation of the above-mentioned base 4 at .
hydrogen have taken the place of 1 at .
of sulphur , Cl4 H11 N2 S+ 3HH = H1 S+ C14 II,4 N2 .
If the molecular arrangement of the sulphur body formerly indicated be correct , the action of the hydrogen would remove the sulphur bond from between the carbon atoms , and by simultaneously loosening the attraction between these carbon atoms and the nitrogen atoms , the union of two hydrogen atoms to each carbon atom would be rendered possible ; both nitrogen atoms would then be doubly linked together .
That these are , in fact , very strongly united is shown by the circumstance that the new base undergoes no further change under the influence of hydrogen .
I had * Hoinmann , Proc. Roy .
So .
vol. xvi .
p. 445 .
hoped that by continued treatment with nascent hydrogen it might have taken up four atoms more of hydrogen and split up into benzylamine , ,14 H14 N2+ 2HH= 2C7 Hg N. Up to the present time I have not succeeded in effecting this transformation , although I have continued the action of zinc and hydrochloric acid for several days .
I do not , however , by any means consider this transformation impossible .
It is worthy of remark that the base here described , and for which I also refrain from proposing a name until its constitution is better ascertained , is isomeric with a body which I formerly obtained * .
Ethenyldiphenyldiamine , ( c2 1-1 " ) C6 H6I N=C IH N , formed by the action of trichloride of phosphorus on one molecule of acetic acid and two molecules of aniline with separation of two molecules of water , has not only the same composition and the same molecular weight , but is monacid like the base derived from the sulphur body .
It requires however , scarcely more than a cursory comparison of the two substances to be convinced that this is a case of isomerism and not of identity .
The crystalline forms , both of the two bases and also of their salts , differ widely from one another .
Besides the previously mentioned salt , I have also compared the nitrate of the new base , which is , though with difficulty , obtained in six-sided tables , with the beautiful nitrate of the previously studied base .
Ethenyldiphenyldiamine is quite neutral , whilst the alcoholic solution of the unnamed base has a distinctly alkaline reaction .
The melting-points also of the two bases differ widely ; the old one melts at 137 ?
and the new at 71 ? .
Lastly , the behaviour of the two bodies with concentrated sulphuric acid leaves no doubt but that they are different ; ethenyldiphenyldiamine is changed under these circumstances without blackening into sulphanilic acid and acetic acid .
The base derived from thiobenzamide is charred with evolution of sulphurous acid .
I am indebted to Mr. K. Sarnow for his valuable assistance in prosecuting the above researches .

