II .
" Transformation of the Aromatic Monamines into Acids richer in Carbon .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received January 21 , 1867 .
In a previous communicationi to the Royal Society I have described the formation of methenyldiphenyldiamnine , a substance which I obtained some years ago , by the action of chloroform on aniline , by means of a new method , namely , by treating a mixture of phenylformamide and aniline with trichloride of phosphorus .
The continuation of these researches necessitated the preparation of phenylformamide , and later also of tolylformamide in greater quantities .
I have repeatedly obtained these bodies by the action of formic ether on the corresponding monamine , but in consequence of the difficulties with which the preparation of formic acid in large quantities is still beset , I have of late returned to the old method , viz. , distillation of the oxalate of the monamine , since I found that by employing the materials in the appropriate proportions , the formation of very large quantities of the formyl compounds may be readily accomplished .
According to Gerhardt , the principal product of the distillation of the secondary aniline-oxalate is diphenyloxamide , phenylformamide being formed only as by-product .
In fact , 1 molecule of oxalic acid and 2 molecules of aniline yield almost exclusively diphenyloxamide by the separation of 2 molecules of water from the secondary aniline-oxalate , thus:(C2O2 ) " r 11 H1 ( C202 ) ) " ~(C2 ' }2 +2H ( C 2 ) + 2H 0 .
* Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xv .
p. 55 .
But nothing is easier than to change the conditions of the experiment so as to give rise to the almost exclusive formation of phenylformamide .
Act with 1 molecule of oxalic acid on 1 molecule of aniline ( or even with 3 molecules of oxalic acid on 2 molecules of aniline ) , taking care to give at once the highest possible temperature , and phenylformamide will be nearly the only product , 1 molecule of water and I molecule of carbonic acid separating from the primary aniline oxalate at first formed , ( 2O , ) - ?
Cj H ?
N C 0H N+O+ CO. 2 tH H The distillate is a fluid of peculiar odour , which , on the addition of a strong solution of caustic soda , immediately solidifies to the crystalline sodacompound of phenylformamide .
This crude product always containing a quantity of aniline , is sufficiently pure for the preparation of methenyldiphenyldiamine previously described by me .
It is only necessary to treat the distillate with trichloride of phosphorus to obtain the methenylcompound in abundance .
The action of oxalic acid on aniline at a high temperature gives rise , however , to quite a series of other reactions subordinate to the principal changes , but affecting nevertheless a goodly quantity of material .
Carbonic oxide is observed to be evolved , together with carbonic acid , during the distillation .
It is the result of two secondary processes .
In the first place , phenylformamide already formed splits up , according to the analogous decomposition of formamide , into aniline and carbonic oxide , CHO 1 c , H5 C , 11 N IH N } + CO ; HJ H ) and secondly , diphenyloxamide undergoes a transformation , previously pointed out by me , being changed into diphenylcarbamide with separation of carbonic oxide , ( C , ) N , ( C O ) " ( C , 11)2 N ( C6 if)2 N+C0 On this occasion the formation of the latter body was once more satisfactorily proved by special experiment .
During the distillation a considerable quantity of a crystalline substance saturated with oil had solidified in the neck of the retort .
This substance was purified by washing with cold and recrystallizing a few times from hot alcohol ; combustion showed that it was pure diphenylcarbamide .
The crude oil obtained by the distillation of 1 molecule of aniline and 1 molecule of oxalic acid contains , further , hydrocyanic acid , and it is not difficult to explain in a satisfactory manner the origin of this compound .
WVhen the distillate is heated to ebullition with concentrated hydrochloric acid , an oily body passes over with the steam .
This oil has a peculiar odour , recalling that of benzonitrile , and exhibits an inclination to crystallize ; it is readily proved to be a mixture .
If this substance be boiled for some time with a concentrated soda-solution in alcohol , it partly dissolves with evolution of ammonia .
When the fluid is allowed to cool , after ammonia has ceased to be evolved and the alcohol distilled off , its surface is found to be covered with oily drops , which after a time become a crystalline solid .
This solidification is instantly produced by treating the oil with a small quantity of concentrated hydrochloric acid .
When a few drops of strong nitric acid are added to the hydrochloric fluid in which the crystals are floating , and the mixture is then gently heated , a deep blue colour is produced .
This reaction is characteristic of diphenylamine , with which the crystalline body perfectly accords in every respect .
It cannot be doubted that diphenylamine is produced from phenylformamide as a product complementary to hydrocyanic acid ; 1 molecule of phenylformamide and 1 molecule of aniline contain the elements of 1 molecule of diphenylamine , 1 molecule of hydrocyanic acid , and 1 molecule of water .
CHO } CN I4 C-IH5 } Cell SN+ HN C= I c1N + CHN + H10 .
HJH i ?
J It still remains to give an account of the fluid substance formed together with diphenylamine , which had disappeared with evolution of ammonia when the mixture was heated with soda-solution .
Had not both its odour and its behaviour with soda pointed to benzonitrile , all doubt of the formation of this body would have been removed , when upon addition of hydrochloric acid to the filtered sodic liquid an abundant quantity of the purest benzoic acid was separated , the nature of which was , moreover , fixed by an analysis of the silver-salt .
The formation of benzonitrile is easily explained .
It is produced by a secondary transformation of phenylformamide , from which 1 molecule of water separates , CH0 06Q1 N 0711 5N + 1120 .
The transition of phenylformamide into benzonitrile is only in part accomplished during the distillation of the mixture of aniline and oxalic acid .
The greater portion of the nitrile is evidently formed during the treatment of the crude product of the distillation with hydrochloric acid .
The conversion of aniline into benzoic acid , an acid richer in carbon than this base , claims some interest , inasmuch as the development of the manufacture of coal-tar colours places the aromatic monamines at our disposal in abundant quantity , and at the cheapest price .
It was by no means improbable that some of the acids , already known , might in this manner be more easily prepared than heretofore , nor was it doubtful that the formation of many new compounds could be accomplished by this process .
2 I have therefore , in the first place , endeavoured to establish the generality of the reaction by treating toluidine in a similar manner .
The phenomena observed when a mixture of 1 molecule of toluidine with 1 molecule of oxalic acid is distilled , are perfectly analogous to those presented by the corresponding experiment with aniline .
It was not necessary for the purposes of the investigation to trace step by step the several phases of the complicated processes .
The crude distillate , which contained abundance of tolylformamide , was therefore immediately heated with strong hydrochloric acid and submitted to distillation .
The oily substance which distilled over with the water , evolved ammonia on being boiled with soda-solution , and the filtrate from the insoluble residue yielded , on addition of hydrochloric acid , a crystalline acid which combustion , as well as analysis of the silver-salt , proved to be tolylic acid .
Here also tolylformamide gave rise to tolonitrile , from which tolylic acid subsequently was produced .
c2 Oj i C , i0 C0110 ( O2 } 0+ H}N= C07H }N+ I20 + CO , , 2JHJ H1 CH101 CeH7 rN = CSt N+ 112 0 , H C81H7N + 211H20 = CSH02 + H11 N. Several varieties of tolylic acid are known to exist , and it can scarcely be doubted which of the isomeric modifications is formed in this case .
As , however , I intend to follow this reaction somewhat further , I shall not for the present go deeper into the question .
The experience collected in the phenyland tolyl-series , as might have been expected , has also been confirmed in the naphthyl-series .
The investigation of the naphthaline group in this direction appeared more particularly interesting .
The idea naturally suggested itself of completing this group by taking advantage of the new reaction for the formation of a series of compounds , the existence of which had long been pointed out by theory , but the preparation of which as yet , notwithstanding repeated attempts , had not succeeded .
Naphthaline , the most common product of the action of high temperatures on organic bodies , has , singularly enough , not as yet been traced to a simple reaction .
It was not doubtful that the hydrocarbon would in time be met with as the result of the splitting up of an acid , holding to it a relation similar to that which obtains between benzoic acid and benzole .
This acid , which is represented by the formula C1l I8 02 , , is in fact procurable by the action of oxalic acid on naphthylamine , the monamine of naphthyl-series .
I propose to give a detailed account of this interesting compound and of its derivatives in a subsequent communication .
I cannot conclude this note without expressing my best thanks to Mr. Cornelius O'Sullivan for the assistance he has given me during the performance of the experiments which I have described .

