April 10 , 1851 .
SIR PHILIP DE MALPAS GREY EGERTON , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
The reading of Dr. Hofinann 's paper " On the Molecular Constitution of the Organic Bases , " was resumed and concluded .
In a former paper* the author advanced a general theory regarding the constitution of the volatile organic bases .
He showed that in all these substances the original structure of ammonia may be traced without difficulty , and that they must be viewed as ammonia in which either one , two , or the three equivalents of hydrogen are replaced by a corresponding number of compound molecules ; he accordingly distinguished the volatile bases as amidogen , imidogen , and nitrile bases .
H- ) W vI H &gt; N HNXNXN HJ HJ H YJ Ammonia .
Amidogen bases .
Imidogen bases .
Nitrile bases .
In lis present memoir he goes a step further , and communicates the discovery of a new group of alkaloids , closely connected by their origin and composition with the former class , but differing from it altogether by their properties .
These new alkaloids are no longer volatile without decomposition , and form in this manner the connecting link between the artificial bases , nearly all of which are volatile , and the natural alkaloids , the majority of which are of a fixed nature .
The alkaloids of the new class , to which for the sake of convenience the author assigns the term of ammonium bases , arise from the nitrile bases by the assimilation of the additional equivalent of one of the replacing molecules in conjunction with oxygen and water .
vt x } X N+ SO , HO= X NO , HO .
YJ zJ In his memoir the author establishes the conditions under which this transformation takes place , viz. the action of the alcohol iodides on nitrile bases , and he developes the generality of his observations by the description of about a dozen of new alkaloids prepared according to his method ; he points out moreover that the number which may be actually produced is nearly unlimited .
The new substances which are formed under the above conditions , are endowed with very remarkable properties .
The alkaloid which is formed by the union of four ethyl equivalents with nitrogen , oxygen and water , the substance in which V X= Y=Z=C4 H , , i.e. C4 HI ) C4 11 , , NO HO , C4 HJ is thus described by the author .
It is of a powerfully alkaline reaction , which manifests itself , not only in its deportment with vegetable colours , but also in its combining their pungent taste with the bitterness of quinine .
The solution , when concentrated , not only burns the tongue , but it acts strongly upon the epidermis , which it destroys , like caustic potassa or soda ; on rubbing a solution of the oxide between the fingers , we feel the well-known sensation produced by the fixed alkalies under the same circumstances , and we perceive moreover the same peculiar odour .
Oxide of tetrathylammonium , as the author calls this substance , saponifies the fats as readily as potassa .
The experiment was made with cocoa-nut oil , which , after half an hour 's ebullition with the new alkali , was converted into a beautiful soft soap , having the appearance of an ordinary potassa soap .
The author has traced the analogy of the new compound with potassa in many other directions , and especially in its deportment with the metallic oxides : his alkaloid , in fact , produces with the salts of the metals exactly the same reactions as potassa .
The other substances belonging to this group have similar properties , modified only by the character of the replacing molecules .
Among them are several which are remarkable for the complex nature of their constitution , which , nevertheless , is perfectly intelligible .
In conclusion , the author draws attention to the assistance which the solution of the grand problem of preparing artificially the natural alkaloids , especially those of the cinchona bark , may receive from a further extension of these researches .
He shows that even now the analogy in the general deportment of his ammonium bases , and the alkaloids of nature , is very great , although they differ materially in many properties .
A paper was read , entitled " Description and purpose of the glass plate which bears the inscription 'Interferenz-spectrum .
Longitudo et celeritas undularum lucis relativa cum in aere turn in vitro .
" ' By T. A. Nobert .
Communicated by Michael Faraday , Esq. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 10 , 1851 .
A rectangular plate of polished glass , 18 lines ( Paris ) in length , 9 lines in breadth , and 1*5 line in depth , has one of its longer narrow faces ground so as to form an angle of 72 ?
with its upper surface .
This narrow face is polished , the other three being ground at right angles to the upper and under surfaces .
On the upper surface , at about the distance of 2 lines from the acute dihedral angle , twelve systems of extremely fine parallel lines are cut , so that in each system the lines are at perfectly equal distances , and the systems lie separate from one another .
Over these lines lies a thin covering plate of glass , but at the place where the ruling is , a stratum of air is contained between the plates .
In these twelve systems , named A , B , C , D , E , F , G , 1-g , I , K , L and i M , the respective distances of the lines measured with great accuracy in Paris lines , are as follow:for A= 0-0003375 line .
B= 0'0003063 C 0'0002625 D= 0-0002438 E= 080002250 F= 0-0002063 G= 0-0001873 H= 0'0001750 I= 00001625 K 0,0001500 L= 00001375 M= 0-0001281 In order to use the plate , it is to be placed on the table of a compound microscope having a magnifying power of 40 to 50 times , the table of the microscope being previously covered with black cloth to prevent the intrusion of all foreign light .
The small covering plate being placed upwards , the polished face forming an acute angle with the upper side , is to be turned towards the window supplying light .
The illumination must take place in a plane at right angles to the length of the plate , and at an angle of ' 18 ?
inclination to the plane of the plate .
The light of strongly illumined clouds , or of a point of the heavens near to the sun , is to be employed : direct sunlight is not recommended .
A greater angle of incidence is of no consequence when making a preliminary observation ; but it is necessary , in order to obtain strongly luminous colours , to turn the plate a little in azimuth while examining the lines , thereby producing the brightest illumination .
If these preliminary precautions be taken , there will appear in the ruled space , for A , deep red ; B , orange ; C , yellow ; D , green ; E , light blue ; F , indigo ; G , violet .
If the foregoing numerical values for the systems A , B , C , 1 ) , E , F and G , be multiplied by cos 18 ?
, the length of the undulations of light in air for those colours which are seen in the rulings will be obtained .
This method is considered to admit of great exactness with this small angle of incidence , because its cosine varies but little .
As in the following five systems , H , I , K , 1 , and M , no colour is perceived , the distances between the lines being there smaller than the lengths of the violet light-waves in air , the prediction of the undulatory theory is confirmed .
The plate is next to be turned so that the small covering plate , and , therefore , also the side of the glass upon which the lines are drawn , is downwards , and the polished narrow face towards the light , which , as before , is incident at an angle of 18 ?
on the plate .
In this position , the light falling perpendicularly on the narrow face , passes through it unbroken , and being within the glass reflected from the rulings , the coloured pictures of all the twelve systems are now exhibited in the microscope .
If the colours which these systems now show , and which have been formed in the glass , be compared with the former colours in the air , the system F , which is deep red , harmonizes with the system A in the air spectrum , and the systems G , H , I , K , L and M in the glass spectrum , according to their order and colour , correspond to the systems B , C , D , E , F and G in the air spectrum ; and the author considers that the comparison of the foregoing values in the systemsA and F , E and K , B and G , F and L , C and H , G and MD and I , shows that the lengths of undulation for the same colour in the air and in the glass are in the ratio 1*53 to 1 , which is exactly the index of refraction of this glass .
He further remarks , that , as the same period of undulation belongs to the same colour , the velocities of propagation in air and in the glass must be in the ratio of the mean value of the distances of the lines in the first seven systems , A , B , C , D , E , F , G , to the mean value of the distances of the lines in the last seven systems , F , G , H , I , K , L , M , or as 153 to 1 ; and that both results agree perfectly with the deductions from the wavetheory of light .
In conclusion , the author points out the extraordinary degree of accuracy required in drawing these lines .
It is stated that if inequalities amounting only to *000002 line occur in the systems F , G , H , I , K , L , M , stripes of another colour will appear in them ; and if the distance of the lines in M be diminished by that quantity , all colour disappears .

