I. " Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias.-No .
XXII .
Secondary Products formed in the Manufacture of Aniline .
" By A. W. HOPMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 18 , 1862 .
In a short paper submitted to the Royal Society some weeks ago , I have recorded some experiments on the basic compounds distilling at very high temperatures , which are formed as secondary products in the manufacture of aniline , and which are known in the ateliers of MM .
Collin and Coblenz as queues d'aniline .
I have mentioned that the bases which distil above 330 ?
, when treated with dilute sulphuric acid , furnish a soluble sulphate , the sulphate of paraniline , the history of which I have already traced , and a sulphate remarkable for its insolubility in water .
It is this insoluble sulphate , and the base from which it is derived , that form the subject of the following notice .
The insoluble sulphate which is formed on treating the queues d'aniline boiling above 330 ?
with cold dilute sulphuric acid , separates as a yellowish semisolid crystalline mass , contaminated with considerable quantities of the oily sulphates of other bases .
Ebullition with alcohol removes these substances pretty well , and the sulphate becomes more crystalline and nearly white .
A further purifi cation is effected by dissolving this mass in a large quantity of boiling water , and filtering from insoluble oily substances ; on cooling , the sulphate separates in white needles , which , on boiling with alcohol , become perfectly pure .
In order to liberate the base , the sulphate is suspended in weak alcohol , and submitted to the action of caustic soda : a solution is thus obtained , which , on the addition of water , deposits the new base in scaly crystals .
They require only to be washed with water , to be redissolved in alcohol , and to be reprecipitated by addition of water .
Thus obtained , this substance presents itself in small white needles or scales , which are apt to assume a greyish tint on drying , very slightly soluble in boiling water , easily in alcohol and ether .
This base fuses at 45 ?
, and boils at 322 ?
, distilling without the slightest alteration .
The numbers obtained in the analysis of this substance may be translated into the formula C,2 H N ; and this expression is unmistakeably corroborated by the examination of several well-defined saline compounds , more especially the sulphate , chloride , and nitrate .
Sulphate.-This salt , repeatedly mentioned , is remarkable for its very sparing solubility in cold , and even boiling water ; the boiling aqueous solution deposits small needles of the composition CHN SO ^^ ^ C12H NH so .
C2 i24 N2 SO4C12 Hll N } H2 S4 C12 1 Hll This salt is somewhat more soluble in alcohol .
Nitrate.-Large white plates , moderately soluble in water , which are obtained by dissolving the base in dilute nitric acid , and recrystallizing the first crop of crystals from boiling water .
Composition : C12 H,1 N2 03= -C Hll N , HNO3 .
The chloride is readily obtained in small white needles , somewhat more soluble in water than the sulphate .
It was found to contain at 100 ?
, C2 , Hl N , HC1 .
The platinum-salt falls as a precipitate of a pale yellowish colour with a tint of grey , which under the microscope is found to consist of small crystalline needles .
This salt contains water of crystallization , which it does not lose even at 150 ? .
Dried respectively at 1100 , 120 ?
, 1300 , and 150 ?
, it invariably exhibited the composition C24 1H26 N2 O , Pt , Cl , -2 [ C12 Hll N , HC1 , Pt C121 +2 0 .
The interpretation of the formula C1 , 111N , established by these well-concordant analyses , appeared to present no difficulties .
The origin of the compound , although uncertain , is surrounded by phenylic associations ; and nothing , in .
fact , could have been more natural than to consider the new base as diphenylamine , Co6 IH1 C12 l N= C6 H5 N ; this view , moreover , appeared to be countenanced by the deportment of the compound under the influence of iodide of ethyl .
To secure at once the last term of ethylation , the base was repeatedly submitted in alcoholic solution to the alternate action of iodide of ethyl and oxide of silver .
The product of the reaction was by appropriate treatment converted into a platinum-salt , which was found to be but slightly crystalline , insoluble in water , but readily soluble in alcohol .
Both combustion and platinum-determination proved this salt to contain C , , H2 , N Pt Cl , = [ C , , I , , ( C , H1)2 N ] C1 , Pt Cl2 .
This salt was decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen , and successively treated with oxide of silver and iodide of ethyl , chloride of silver and dichloride of platinum , so as to produce in succession the chloride and oxide and , lastly , the iodide , chloride , and platinum-salt of a higher ethylated body .
But the platinum-salt thus obtained was found to have still the same composition , which was , moreover , confirmed by the analysis of a fine bromide , crystallizing in prisms , difficultly soluble in water and ether , but easily soluble in alcohol , and a well-defined iodide , crystallizing in plates and having properties similar to those of the bromide .
These salts contained respectively , Bromide C , 1-2 , NBr= [ C , , Ho , ( C2 I-H ) N ] Br , and Iodide C6 H20 NI [ C1 Io , , ( C2 H1 ) , N ] I. But before admitting these substances to be truly diethyl-dipheny lated ammonium compounds , it appeared desirable to prepare the oxide corresponding to these salts .
On treating the alcoholic solution of the bromide or iodide with oxide of silver , a liquid was formed which showed no alkaline reaction , and which , on evaporation , deposited white needles , insoluble in water , moderately soluble in alcohol , easily soluble in ether , which fused at 100 ?
and volatilized at a higher temperature without decomposition .
These are not the properties of a tetrasubstituted ammonium base ; moreover the combustion led , instead of to the formula 0 H2 NO= [ ( C6 H5)2 ( C2 H5)2 N ] } flowing out of the above conception , to the expression C16 H11 N , incompatible with this conception , and revealing at once the true nature both of the original base and its ethylated derivative .
The former is a primary , the latter a tertiary monamine : Original base. .
C , ,HN= 1 N ; Ethylated derivative C N=C 1N Ethylated derivative C06H 1N=1 CH N. C , 2115 j To remove a last doubt which might have been entertained , it became desirable to prove that this latter base could fix another molecule of the iodide of an alcohol radical .
Having failed with iodide of ethyl , I tried the action of iodide of methyl , which stands so much closer to hydriodic acid , and was delighted to find that the base is attacked by this compound , the product being an iodide which , when treated with oxide of silver , yielded a powerfully alkaline solution , possessing all the characters of the free ammonium bases .
Converted into a chloride and precipitated by dichloride of platinum , this substance furnished a difficultly soluble platinum-salt crystallizing in needles , the combustion and platinum-determination of which gave numbers unequivocally fixing the formula 17H1122 NPt C13= [ ( C,1 H1 ) ( C2 H5)2 ( C H1 ) N ] C1 , Pt C1 , .
These results show how much preferable , on the whole , for fixing the degree of substitution in ammonias is iodide of methyl , although the numbers which the methylated compounds furnish are of necessity less characteristic than those of the ethylated derivatives .
The new base , for which I propose the name Martylamine , is remarkable for the disinclination with which it goes through the series of performances which are generally expected from welldefined monamines .
Chlorine , bromine , and oxidizing agents in general , give rise to the formation of dark-coloured compounds , which appear to possess but little tendency to crystallize .
An exception is formed by its behaviour with nitrous acid .
On passing this gas through an alcoholic solution , the liquid becomes warm , and soon solidifies into a mass of red crystals , which are insoluble in water , difficultly soluble in alcohol , easily soluble in ether , which contain C24 H19 N3 = ( C12 H1)2 NH"H , N , , showing that this substance is formed by simple nitrogen substitution , which in this case links two molecules of martylamine together , 2 C1 , ,2 HN+ HNO- , =C24 H19 N3+2 H2 0 .
Treated with acids , this substance is easily reconverted into martylamine with simultaneous formation of an aromatic compound , which I intend to examine more minutely by-and-by .
I cannot at present offer any observation on the reaction which in the manufacture of aniline gives rise to the formation of the new base , although MM .
Collin and Coblenz have most kindly furnished me with a detailed account of the several phases of their operations .
It might , in fact , at the first glance appear to be waste of time to examine a compound which , however well defined , may owe its formation to a combination of conditions which are not easily realized again .
My friends Mr. Nicholson and Mr. Perkin , of wellknown experience in matters connected with the manufacture of aniline , have never observed this compound in their operations .
Martvlamine , nevertheless , is endowed with an interest of its own .
Though of obscure origin , this body , from the place it occupies on the ladder of carbon , and from its very composition , establishes at once ties of parentage with some of the most distinguished families in the domain of organic chemistry .
A glance at the formula of martylamine suffices to point out the close connexion of this compound with benzidine , the remarkable base obtained by Zinin from azobenzol , and the true constitution of which was lately made out in my laboratory by Dr. P. W. Hofmann .
These two compounds stand in the same relation to each other as ethylamine and ethylenediamine , as phenylamine and phenylene-diamine : Martylamine c 12 91 Benzidine(C12 H8 ) " artyl e Martylene-diamine i2 2 This is not merely a relationship existing on paper ; whoever has had these compounds in his hand will at once recognize the necessity of placing them side by side ; but I may be allowed to point more particularly to the remarkable similarity of the deportment of benzidine under the influence of iodide of ethyl , this base exhibiting the same reluctance to pass from the state of tertiary substitution to the state of ammonium base-a passage which , in the case of benzidine , exactly as in the case of martylamine , had to be accomplished by means of iodide of methyl .

