IV .
" Compounds Isomeric with the Sulphocyanic Ethers.-II .
Homologues and Analogues of Ethylic Mustard-oil .
" By A. W. HOrMANN , Ph. D. , Mi .
D. , LLoD .
Received September 11 , 1868 .
In a former Note submitted to the Royal Society some months ago , I have sketched a series of compounds isomeric with the well-known sulphocyanic ethers ; today I shall endeavour to delineate more in detail the bodies the existence of which I then pointed out .
In order to prepare these substances , which , from their analogy with the essential oil of mustard-seed , I have designated by the name of mustard-oils , the monamines were in the first place treated with bisulphide of carbon ; the alcohol-sulphocarbonates of the monamines thus formed were then submitted to the action of heat and converted , by the loss of 1 molecule of sulphuretted hydrogen , into sulphuretted ureas , which were finally deprived of 1 molecule of monamine by means of anhydrous phosphoric acid .
Circuitous as this process may appear , it has the merit of being a general one , furnishing , in fact , the mustard-oils both of the fatty and aromatic series .
When working with fatty substances , however , the method may be very considerably curtailed .
Let it be ethylic mustardoil that is to be prepared .
Even on the threshhold of my inquiry I had hoped to see ethyl-sulphocarbamic acid split up into sulphuretted hydrogen and ethylic mustard-oil ; experiment , however , proved that the metamorphosis assumes another form , the acid yielding as products of decomposition its two components , ethylamine and bisulphide of carbon .
( C 8)"(C2 I , )N , I } C , }N +C 82 But a transformation which the free acid refuses , the metallic ethylsulphocarbamates undergo without difficulty , more especially in the presence of an excess of the metallic solution , a metallic sulphide being formed .
( C y ' ( C(2 T-15 ) N Of I sc(C:)ff N+ i S. On adding , for instance , nitrate of silver to a solution of ethyl-sulphocarbarnate of ethylamine , such as is produced by the action of bisulphide of carbon upon ethylamine , a white precipitate of ethyl-sulphocarbamate of silver is formed , nitrate of ethylamine passing into solution .
After some time , * Proceedings , vol. xvi p. 254 .
E however , this precipitate blackens , even at the common temperature , more rapidly on heating , with formation of sulphide of silver .
Simultaneously the odour of ethylic mustard-oil becomes perceptible ; and if the liquid be heated to ebullition , this oil distils in large quantity with the vapour of water .
The disengagement of sulphuretted hydrogen , which is observed at the same time , belongs to a secondary reaction , the unstable hydrosulphide of silver ( which is formed in the first instance ) splitting up into sulphide of silver and sulphuretted hydrogen .
In this experiment no excess of silver should be used .
Ethyl mustardoil , more especially upon protracted ebullition , exchanges its sulphur for oxygen , thus giving rise to the formation of cyanate of ethyl , easily recognizable by its fearful odour .
Ultimately this ether is entirely decomposed into carbonic acid and ethylamine ; after some time the solution contains nothing but nitrate of ethylamine .
Most of the metallic ethyl-sulphocarbamates , more especially the copper and mercury salts , behave exactly like the silver compound .
I have almost invariably employed mercuric chloride for preparing ethyl-mustard-oil .
In this case the hydrochlorate of ethylamine which is produced unites with the excess of corrosive sublimate to form an insoluble compound .
Accordingly the ethylamine , which in this reaction is separated as salt , exists partly in solution , partly in the precipitate ; it is easily recovered by treating with caustic soda the residue which is left after the mustard-oil has been obtained by distillation .
When working with pure ethylamine , one half of the base may thus be regenerated for a new operation .
But it would be useless to employ pure ethylamine for this purpose .
The crude mixture of bases , which is obtained by allowing alcoholic ammonia to stand for some time with iodide of ethyl and distilling the iodides thus formed with an alkali , is very well adapted for this operation .
This mixture , as is well known , contains , together with ammonia , the primary , secondary , and tertiary monamines of the ethyl-series .
I have satisfied myself , in the first place , that diethylamine is just as easily converted into ethylic mustard-oil as ethylamine .
The experiment was made with absolutely pure diethylamine prepared by means of diethyloxamic ether .
Bisulphide of carbon , more especially in alcoholic solution , acts with great energy upon diethylamine , diethyl-sulphocarbamate of diethylamine being formed , which , when treated by a metallic salt , furnishes a metallic diethyl-sulphocarbamate together with a salt of diethylamine .
On ebullition , the former is converted into ethylic mustard-oil ; but instead of the metallic hydrosulphide generated in the analogous metamorphosis of ethylamine , in this case a mercaptide is formed .
( C S)"(C21 ) N , ( C H , ) } C , C S ' N C , 11 }I should not leave unmentioned , however , that the formation of mercaptide is still to be further proved by direct experiment .
On working with mercuric chloride , the precipitate which remains after the ethylic mustard-oil is separated by distillation , neither dissolves in boiling water nor in boiling alcohol .
If this precipitate were pure mercaptide of mercury , it should be crystallizable from boiling alcohol .
Probably it is a double compound of mercaptide and chloride ; at all events , I have established by experiment that mercaptide and chloride of mercury unite to form a compound perfectly insoluble both in water and alcohol , even on boiling .
Triethylamine also unites with bisulphide of carbon ; but this compound , as might have been expected , yields no longer any mustard-oil .
Ultimately , as regards the ammonia , which invariably occurs in the crude mixture of the ethyl-bases , its presence rather increases than diminishes the quantity of mustard-oil which is formed .
This ammonia remains in the residue in the form of a salt , together with salts of ethylamine , diethylamine , and triethylamine ; and a corresponding quantity of the primary and secondary ethyl-bases is converted into mustard-oil , the yield of which may thus be very considerably augmented .
The mercuric salts also attack ethylic mustard-oil , although much less easily and rapidly than nitrate of silver .
A large excess of chloride of mercury , however , should be avoided .
If the ethylamine be prepared from iodide of ethyl , it is convenient to employ the mercury salt and the mixture of bases in such proportions that 1 molecule of mercuric chloride reacts upon the bases generated by means of 2 molecules of iodide of ethyl .
In an experiment carried out upon rather a large scale a quantity of ethylic mustard-oil was obtained amounting to from 60 to 70 per cent. of the theoretical proportion which might have been expected from the weight of iodide of ethyl employed .
Ethylic Mustard-oil .
As to the physical properties of ethylic mustard-oil , I have not to add anything to what I have formerly stated , except a determination of the gas-volumle weight , which was taken in the vacuum of the barometer at the temperature of 185 ?
( in the vapour of boiling aniline ) .
Referred to hydrogen .
Referred to air .
Theory .
Experiment .
Theory .
Experiment .
Gas-volume weight ... .
43-5 43'75 3-02 3-03 When operating with the isomeric sulphocyanide of ethyl , the following numbers were obtained : Referred to hydrogen .
Referred to air .
Theory .
Experiment .
Theory .
Experiment .
Gas-volume weight of sulphocyanide } of ethyl ( determined in the vapour 43-5 42-84 3-02 2-98 of boiling water ) ... ... ... .
J of Ethylic Mustard-oil .
69 1868 .
] Met hylic Mustard-oil .
I formerly obtained the methyl-compound as an oily liquid boiling at 120 ?
, and powerfully smelling of horseradish .
When a somewhat larger quantity of this body was prepared according to the process above described , the liquid , after distillation with the vapour of water , solidified to a splendid crystalline body .
Composition , 02 H3 N S(C St N. Boiling-point 1190 ; fusing-point 34 ?
; solidifying-point 26 ? .
Referred to hydrogen .
Referred to air .
Theory .
Experiment .
Theory .
Experiment .
Gas-volume weight of methylic 1 mustard-oil ( determined in the 36 ' 5 37-89 2-52 2-61 vapour of boiling water). .
J Amylic Mustard-oil .
I have also prepared the amyl-compound on a larger scale by a slight modification of the process above described .
Instead of separating the compound from the mercury precipitate obtained in the dilute alcoholic solution at once by distillation , it is advisable to return the vapours , condensed by a cooler , for some time ito the boiling mixture .
When the reaction is complete , the sulphide of mercury is filtered off , the amylic mustard-oil precipitated by water , dried over chloride of calcium , and ultimately purified by distillation .
The odour of the compound is analogous to those of the methyland ethyl-body , but less pronounced .
Composition , C , H , N S= S1 , t S. Boiling-point 183 ?
to 184 ? .
Referred to hydrogen .
Referred to air .
Theory .
Experiment .
Theory .
Experiment .
Gas-volume weight of amylic mustard-oil ( determinied in the va64-5 63-42 4-48 4-40 pour of boiling aniline ) ... ... Tolylic luszstard-oil .
As has already been pointed out , the new process cannot be used for preparing the mustard-oils of the aromatic series , at all events in the narrower sense of the word .
I may mention , however , that tolylic mustard-oil may be readily obtained by the process which I had formerly used for producing the corresponding compound of the phenyl-series .
The ditolylsulphocarbamide required for this purpose is known ; it was examined some years ago by MA .
Sell .
If this body be distilled with anhydrous phosphoric acid , aromatic vapours are evolved which may be condensed to a yellowish oil rapidly assuming the crystalline form .
The product of distillation 70 Rtecess , generally retains a minute quantity of ditolyl-sulphocarbamide , which may be separated by recrystallization from ether , tolylic mustard-oil being extremely , ditolyl-sulphocarbamide but slightly soluble in this liquid .
The mustard-oil of the tolyl-series readily crystallizes in beautiful white needles , attaining often the length of several centimetres ; they are easily soluble in alcohol , slightly so in water .
Tolylic mustard-oil possesses to an almost deceptive degree the odour of oil of aniseed .
Composition , C8 HI , NS =(C fI N. Boiling-point 237 ?
; fusing-point 26 ?
; solidifying-point 22 ? .
When gently heated with toluidine , tolylic mustard-oil is reconverted into ditolylsulphocarbamide .
With ammonia it forms sulphuretted monotolylurea .
Aniline gives rise to the mixed sulphuretted urea of the phenyl and tolyl-series , which is easily obtained in beautiful crystals .
Benzylic Mustard-oil .
Chemists are acquainted with a primary monamine isomeric with toluidine .
This is benzylamine , discovered by M. Mendius .
3ince the beautiful experiments of MM .
Fittig and Tollens have established the presence of the methyl-group in toluol , our views respecting the difference of constitution of the two isomeric monamines have acquired a solid foundation .
In toluidine the substitution of the primary ammonia fragment ( H2 N ) for hydrogen has taken place within the benzol nucleus ; in benzylamine , on the other hand , the substitution occurs in the methyl-group engrafted upon the benzol nucleus .
Benzylamine thus belongs , in a measure , to both the fatty and the aromatic series ; and the residue of ammonia , which in fact is exclusively affected during the formation of mustard-oils , is present in the fatty portion of the compound .
Under these circum stances it appeared rather probable that the base isomeric with toluidine would yield its mustard-oil by conversion into the bisulphide-of-carbon compound and distillation of the latter with perchloride of mercury .
Experiment has verified this anticipation .
Benzylamine dissolves in bisulphide of carbon with evolution of heat , a beautiful white crystalline compound being formed , which , when distilled with alcohol and mercuric chloride , yields a liquid of a penetrating odour .
On adding water to the alcoholic distillate , the mustard-oil separates in clear drops which are heavier than water .
Benzylic mustard-oil , c m , S= , af isomeric with tolylic mustard-oil , boils at about 243 ?
, a few degrees higher than the tolyl-compound .
The new body possesses in an eminent degree the odour of water-cresses .
The resemblance is so striking , that it becomes desirable to examine the essential oil of water-cresses .
I may here mention .
that menaphtylamine , the preparation and properties of which I have lately described to the Royal Society * , yields likewise a mustard-oil , if it be successively treated with bisulphide of carbon and mercuric chloride .
I have not , however , more minutely examined this compound .
All the mustard-oils here mentioned exhibit , more especially with reference to ammonia and its derivatives , the same reactive power which belongs to ethylic mustard-oil , more minutely described in my former communication , and by which the mustard-oil par excellence , the well-known allylcompound , has long fixed the interest of chemists .
Of the legion of urealike bodies which are here possible , I have prepared but few .
It may be stated that the sulphuretted methylic and amylic ureas , and also the sulphu. .
retted methylamylic and amyltolylic ureas vie with each other as to beauty and facility of crystallization .
I have not , however , examined more minutely these ammonia compounds , their study promising but very little scientific gain .
On the other hand , I have investigated with some care the metamorphoses of the mustard-oils , since their comparison with the corresponding transformations of the sulphocyanic ethers promised to elucidate the different construction of the two groups of bodies .
The results of these inquiries unequivocally confirm the view suggested by the formation of the two classes of compounds .
It is indeed only necessary to trace their origin in order to understand the nature of this difference .
We could not select better illustrations than the isomeric terms of the methyl-series .
Both bodies , methylic mustard-oil and sulphocyanide of methyl , are in the last instance derived from exactly the same compounds , viz. methylic alcohol , bisulphide of carbon , and ammonia .
Let the molecules of these three compounds unite with separation of 1 molecule of water and 1 molecule of sulphuretted hydrogen , and a body will be formed possessing the composition of both methylic mustard-oil and sulphocyanide of methyl .
CH O+C S2+H3 N=HO2 0+H2 +C2 H3 N S. Accordingly the nature of the body produced must depend upon the conditions ( it might be almost said upon the order ) in which the molecules of water and sulphuretted hydrogen are separated from the aggregate of atoms .
Conceived in its simplest form , the first step of the generation of methylic mustard-oil consists in the action of ammonia upon methylic alcohol , when methylamine is produced with separation of water .
C H14 0 +H3 N= H2 +C HI N. In a second phase of the process , methylamine is acted upon by bisulphide of carbon , the products being methylic mustard-oil and sulphuretted hydrogen .
CI N+C S2= H+C21N S. The reactions occur in the inverse order when sulphocyanide of methyl is produced .
Here the process commences with the reaction between bisulphide of carbon and ammonia , hydrosulphocyanic acid being formed with separation of sulphuretted hydrogen .
CS2+H13N=H,2S+CIHNS .
Hydrosulphocyanic acid and methylic alcohol , lastly , furnish water and sulphocyanide of methyl .
C HNS+-C H40=H1O2+C2HN S. This inverse order , in which the reactions succeed each other , gives a definite direction to our speculations as to the arrangement of the atoms within the molecules of the two compounds .
If bisulphide of carbon , S CS , in contact with methylamine , H3 CN -2 , is found to disengage sulphuretted hydrogen , we cannot doubt that the carbon-atom of the bisulphide , meeting , as it were , with its two freed attraction-units those liberated in the nitrogen atom , .
associates with this nitrogen-atom , and consequently that it must be by the nitrogen that the carbon of the methyl-group is chained to the carbon of the bisulphide .
On the other hand , if in hydrosulphocyanic acid we may conceive the hydrogen to be in union with the sul .
phur , we are , after this hydrogen has been converted into water by the hydroxyl of methylic alcohol , also justified in considering the sulphur-atom as the link of connexion between the two carbon-atoms of the compound , the attraction-unit , which has become available in the carbon-atom , being saturated by the free atomic power of the sulphur .
The relative position of the atoms il the molecules of the two compounds would thus be indicated by the following diagramMethylic mustard-oil .
Sulphocyanide of methyl .
HH H-C-r N=C=S , and H-Cs-C N ; or more concisely in the subjoined formula-S CNC If this conception be correct , it is obvious that whenever nitrogen and sulphur are found together in a molecule , this molecule must be capable of existing in two different forms , one corresponding to methylic mustardoil , the other to cyanide of methyl .
In a paper which I hope shortly to submit to the Royal Society , I propose to show how far this conception is supported by experiment .
1868 .
] 73

