VII .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
XVIIi .
Tetrammonium-Compounds .
By A. W. HOPMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 29 , 1861 .
In several previous communications I have submitted to the Royal Society a sketch of the triatomic bases which are generated by the assimilation of three molecules of ammonia linked together by the intervention of diatomic molecules .
In the same sketch I endeavoured to trace the general principle upon which the bases of higher atomicity are formed .
I pointed out that the accumulation of ammonia-molecules is determined by the number of diatomic radicals which are fixed ; that , for the production of an ( n+i)-atomic amiimonia , at least n diatomic radicals are required ; and lastly , that the number of molecules of diatomic bromides and the quantity of ammonia involved in these accumulative processes are given in the general equation n " Br,2+ 2n 11 , N= [ Rn H(2n+4 ) N( +l ) ] , " +i ) Br( , ++ -l([CH N]Br ) .
I moreover'showed how this equation applies to the first terms of the series of diammoniunmas well as triammonium-salts .
In following up the natural development of these ideas , I had to search for the tetrammonium-compounds .
For if n=3 , the above equation reduces itself to 3R " Br , + 6 H3 N= [ R3I HII N4]i Br4+ 2([IH , N]Br ) ; and the simplest tetramine of the ethylene-series the triethylenetetramine-is represented by the formula Co I-19 N4-= ( C2 I ) ' N. I have vainly searched for this compound among the difficultly volatile bases resulting from the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonia , which distil after the triammonias have passed .
But it is obvious that so complex a compound must have a very high boilingpoint , and thus be liable to decomposition by distillation .
To avoid this decomposition , the product of the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonia was treated with an excess of oxide of silver ; the liberated bases were then submitted to a long-continued current of steam , by which all the volatile matter was carried over .
A considerable proportion of non-volatile bases remained behind , the mixed character of which was easily proved by progressive precipitation by dichloride of platinum .
The analysis of these platinum-salts has convinced me that this liquid indeed contains the tetramine in question , mixed , however , with other compounds of very similar properties ; so that my endeavours to obtain it in a state of purity have failed .
I have , however , succeeded in preparing the pure compound by a somewhat different process , viz. by submitting ethylene-diamine , instead of ammonia , to the action of dibromide of ethylene .
The formation of the tetrammonium-compound in this reaction is represented by the equation 2 [ ( C2 H ) } N2 ] + ( C2 1 ) Br+ 2Br= [ ( C2 I)3ii }N Br4 .
The hydrobromic acid which figures in this equation arises from another phase of the reaction , which I have not yet completely studied .
Triethylene-tetramine is a powerfully alkaline liquid which is separated from the bromide by means of oxide of silver .
It dries up to a syrup , which shows no tendency to crystallize .
Its composition was fixed by the analysis of the pale-yellow , amorphous , almost insoluble platinum-salt , which was found to contain C H22 N , Pt4 C 12= ( H )3ii }N Cl 4PtC1 , .
Although less intricate than the result of the reaction between ammonia and dibromide of ethylene , the products obtained under similar circumstances from ethylene-diamine present still considerable complexity ; and the impossibility of separating the tetramines by distillation , together with their rapidly diminishing faculty of yielding crystalline compounds , render the investigation of these substances rather difficult , more particularly since time , temperature , and even relative proportion of the reacting compounds are apt to vary the nature of the products formed .
A simplification of these difficulties appeared to present itself by adopting the method which had so greatly facilitated the study of the bases of lower atomicity , viz. by examining the deportment of some of the ethylated monamines under the influence of dibromide of ethylene .
As a chemical theory expands and becomes more and more consolidated , the interest attached to the individual compounds used as scaffolding in raising the structure becomes less and less , diminishing in fact in the inverse ratio of the number of the compounds which the theory suggests .
It thus became a matter of comparative indifference , in what series and by what materials the construction of the group of tetrammonium-compounds was attempted .
Ethylamine and diethylamine appeared to recommend themselves by their accessibility .
Owing to the greater simplicity of the reaction , I will first mention the results elicited in studying the deportment of the diethylated monamine .
Action of Dibromide of Ethylene upon Diethylamine .
The reaction is rapidly accomplished , both in the absence and presence of alcohol .
On opening the tubes after several hours ' digestion at 1000 , the liquid is found to be acid ; the powerful evolution of bromide of vinyl , which is invariably observed , at once points out the existence , among the products of the reaction , of considerable quantities of bromide of diethylammonium .
In addition to this bromide , the reaction of dibromide of ethylene upon diethylamine furnishes only two other bromides , viz. the dibromide of ethylene-tetrethyldiammonium and , lastly , the tetrabromide of triethylene-octethyltetrammonium .
The following equations represent the formation of these compounds:(C2H5)2 N+ ( C2 I14)1 Br2 i ( C2 H5)4 }N2 and 6 ( C , 2l)2 1 NI5)2 [ C " P rr(C2 H ii 1 iv 6 L(CI 1N +3[(C 1)1 BrC ] ( C2H5)8 Nj Br +2 ( [ ( C )2 } N]Br ) .
The separation of these three salts presents no difficulties .
Liberated by oxide of silver and submitted to a protracted current of steam , the mixture of bases separates on the one hand into diethylamine and ethylene-tetrethyldiamine , which pass over with the steam , and hydrate of triethylene-octethyltetrammonium , which remains behind .
The octethylated tetrammonium-compounds are remarkable for their definite characters : they are still crystalline , -a circumstance which has facilitated their study in no common degree .
The composition of the series was fixed by the analysis of the platinum-salt , of the gold-salt , and of the tetriodide .
The platinum-salt is almost insoluble in water .
Precipitated from a dilute and gently warmed solution , it is obtained in small crystalline plates containing [ ( C2 H4 )1 iv C22 H,4 N4 Pt4 Cl12= ( C2 )8 N4 Cl4 , 4 PtC2 .
H2 J This substance has served in the preparation of the other salts .
Treated with sulphuretted hydrogen , the platinum-salt is converted into the difficultly crystallizable chloride , which yields with trichloride of gold a crystalline gold-salt of the composition ( C02 H4)3ii 1iv C22 H4 N4 Au , Cl , ,(C , H5)1 N4 Cl,4 4AuClI .
The chloride , submitted to the action of oxide of silver , furnishes the powerfully alkaline free base 4CHI , , N , 0 =K^ HN f which has all the characters of the non-volatile monammonium- , diammonium- , and triammonium-bases which I have previously described .
Treated with hydriodic acid , it is converted into the tetriodide , which is very soluble in water , but which may be obtained from alcohol in white exceedingly soluble crystals , of the composition r(C , H ) 43 C2 , 2H5 N4 4= ( C , HE ) N4 I , .
2 iJ It deserves to be noticed that the tetrammonium-compound , which I have endeavoured to sketch , does not contain more than three molecules of ethylene-that it is , in fact ( if we disregard the accidental circumstance of its octethylated condition ) , the simplest tetrammonium-compound which could possibly be formed , three molecules of ethylene being , as is evident from a glance at the general equation given at the commencement of this note , the smallest number of diatomic molecules by which a tetrammonium-compound may acquire the necessary stability .
I have submitted the free octethylated base to the action of iodide of ethyl .
This treatment gives rise to a beautifully crystallized iodide less soluble in alcohol , which containsC , I-I N4 14 , = ( CH }Nf2 8 I41 I have not carried the ethylation any further .
Action of Dibromide of Ethylene upon Ethylamine .
The reaction between these two bodies , as might have been expected from the number of unreplaced hydrogen-equivalents in ethylamine , is far more complex than the process previously examined .
The action is rapidly accomplished at 100 ?
; and it deserves to be noticed that very little bromide of vinyl is formed in this operation , only traces of gas being evolved on opening the digestion-tubes .
The crystalline mass which remains on evaporating the product of the reaction to dryness , is a mixture of six , and occasionally of seven bromides , viz. Bromide of ethylammonium [ ( C2 '}N Br .
Dibromide of ethylene-diethyldiammonium Dibromide of diethylene-diethyldiammonium Tribromide of diethylene-triethyltriammonium Tribromide of triethylene-triethyltriammonium Tetrabromide of pentethylene-tetrethyltetramInonium Tetrabromide of hexethylene-tetrethyltetrammonium [ -(02 1 ) ii ( C H5)2 N2 Br2 .
( C2 H , )1 ]i ( C , H)2 }N2 , Br , .
t2J [ H4)i2 } iN ( C2 115)3 N4 3 Br , .
1(C2 1)3 ) i ( C2 H)3 N,3 Br , .
( C2 H4)5iH iv ( C,2 HJ4 N34 Br , ( C2 H4)i4 N Br L H5)4 4 The ammonias corresponding to the first five of these bromides are known by former researches .
They are all volatile ; there was therefore no difficulty in separating them from the mixture .
Liberated by means of oxide of silver and submitted to the action of steam , they were carried over , leaving behind a powerfully alkaline liquid , which in most cases was found to consist exclusively of the hydrate of pentethylene-tetrethyltetrammonium , C18 1146 N4 04_ [ ( 02 H4)5ii ( C2 5)4 2 N41iv 04 The simple salts of this tetrammonium are extremely soluble , and crystallize with the greatest difficulty ; I have therefore established the composition of the series by the analysis of the difficultly soluble platinum-salt and gold-salt .
They are obtained in the form of yellow , amorphous or very indistinctly crystalline precipitates , containing , r(C0 H ) iv Platinum-salt C8 , H14 N4 Pt4 C112= i(C , I5)4 N4 C14 , 4PtCI2 ; L 113 J Gold-salt C8 , H4i N4 Au,4 Cl= a ( C2 Ht )4 N4 Cl4 , 4 AuCI .
The formation of the pentethylenated tetrammonium is represented by the following equation:0 [ ( C , H ) }N ] +5 [ ( C2 II,4 ) Br2 ] = [ ( C2 H-4 N4 Br +6([(C H ) }N]Br ) .
The pentethylene-tetrethylated tetrammonium contains still 2 equivalents of replaceable hydrogen .
By the action of iodide of ethyl they may , although with difficulty , be removed and replaced by ethyl .
I have thus obtained successively the pentethylene-penthethylated and , lastly , the pentethylene-hexethylated tetrammonium , [ ( C , 14)i ( C , 5 , ) , H N4]iv and [ ( C2 H14)5'(C2 H1 ) N4TV }o the composition of which was established by the analysis of the platinumand the gold-salts .
I have mentioned above , that the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ethylamine produces occasionally also the hexethylene-tetrethyltetrammonium .
This substance may be obtained in a state of purity by the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ethylene-diethyldiamine and diethylene-diethyldiamine , r(C2 HYi " )1 F/ ( C2 114)1 i iv 4[(C2H5)2 N , +4 [ ( C , H II , ) Br2]=[( C2H( ) } N ] Br , I-I , 2( u J\ +2 ( C2 H)2 N2 Br2 , and 2[c)}N]+ 2[(C,2 " ) Br2 ] =(C2 14 ) , } N4 ] B4 The composition of the hexethylene-tetrethylated tetrammonium was likewise established by the analysis of the platinum-salt and gold-salt .
The analysis of these salts completes my researches on the tetrammonium conpounds .
In a further paper I propose to examine the ammonias of higher atomicity .

