XIII .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
XV .
Monacid Polyamines .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1861 .
In former investigations I have pointed out the existence of a group of monacid bases containing three equivalents of nitrogen , the principal representatives of which , cyandiphenyldiamine and cyantriphenyldiamine , were formed by submitting aniline to the action respectively of chloride of cyanogen * , 2 6C H7 N+ CN C= C13 H3 N3 , IH C Aniline .
Hydrochlorate of cyandiphenyl-diamine ( melaniline ) .
and tetrachloride of carbon , 6C6 H N+CC14 = C9 , , 17 N3 , I C1+3(C , H N , HI C1 ) s._ __ y_J .
K.__ ... Aniline .
Hydrochlorate of Hydrochlorate of cyantriphenylaniline .
diamine .
I have lately met again with this group of bases in a new reaction which I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society .
When examining several years ago t the action of ethylate of sodium upon cyanate of ethyl , I observed the formation of triethylamine , but in subsequent experiments I could not reproduce this compound by this method , the reaction assuming a totally different form .
I have not yet been able to elaborate the circumstances which determine the two different actions , but I have ascertained the nature of the substance which is formed instead of triethylamine .
Cyanate of ethyl , when allowed to flow in a slow stream upon perfectly pure ethylate of sodium , is powerfully acted upon ; heat is evolved , which volatilizes a portion of the cyanate of ethyl ; by far the larger portion , however , is converted into cyanurate of ethyl , which may be obtained with all its properties , simply by exhausting the dry cake in the retort , after cooling , with cold water .
On submitting the mixture of cyanurate of ethyl with ethylate of sodium to distillation at gradually increasing temperatures , ethylene gas is abundantly evolved , while a powerfully alkaline liquid condenses in the receiver , consisting of alcohol , an oily compound easily soluble in alcohol and difficultly soluble in water , ethylamine , and lastly , a powerfully basic oil , which boils at a very high temperature , at which it is partly decomposed .
The basic oil forms a series of saline compounds , amongst which the splendidly crystallized iodide , the beautiful platinum-salt , and the gold-salt deserve to be mentioned .
The two latter , on analysis , were found to contain respectively , Platinum-salt ... .
C7 H17 N3 , H C1 , Pt Ci,2 Gold-salt ... ... . .
C7 H7 N , H C1 , Au Cl1 .
The composition of the base , such as it exists in combination with acids , is thus seen to be represented by the formula C7 H17 N. In the free state , however , this substance retains with great pertinacity one molecule of water , being in fact C7 I0 3N O= C7 H17 N3 , H O. It owes its origin to the gradual action on the cyanurate of ethyl of the hydrated alkali , which is produced by the decomposition of the ethylate of sodium under the influence of heat , C 11 N " 42 Na o 2[ } +7 111 ] N 0 .
_V.__ Cyanuric ether .
New base .
The interpretation of this new compound presents no difficulty .
A glance at the formula shows that it represents in the ethyl-series the body which in the phenyl-series I had previously formed by the action of tetrachloride of carbon on aniline .
I have pointed out that the latter may be referred either to two or to three molecules of ammonia , and presents itself respectively as cyantriphenyl-diamine or as carbotriphenyltriarline , C , , H17 N3= ( C N ) ( CG 11)3 H2}N2= Ci ( C , H , ) H2}N3 .
In a similar manner the new ethylated compound may be regarded as cyantriethyl-diamine or carbotriethyltriamine , C , H,17 N3 ( C )(C2 11[)3 Ht N2=C v ( C2 H-)3 H N } N. The latter formula would illustrate in some measure how the three ammonia-molecules are linked together in these compounds .
Whatever view may be taken of these bodies , whether they be regarded as diamines or triamines , they claim some interest on account of their well-defined characters and the numerous processes in which they appear to be formed .
Methyluramine , the base discovered by M. Dessaignes among the products of oxidation of creatine , belongs to the same group of bases , and perhaps the most interesting term of the series , guanidine , has been lately obtained by M. Strecker by the action of oxidizing agents upon guanine .
Referred to three molecules of ammonia , the several bases which I have mentioned are represented by the following formulae : Carbotriamine ( Guanidine ) } N3 , Methylcarbotriamine ( MeeCI N. thyluramine ) ... ... . .
Civ Diphenylcarbotriamine ( Ci )J N. ( Melaniline)- .
1J Civ Triphenylcarbotriamine ( Cg 15)3 N3 .
112 J Civ Triethylcarbotriamine. .
( C2 H)3 N3 .
si The perfect analogy of these several compounds is beautifully illustrated by the parallelism of their products of decomposition .
Thus guanidine , when treated with nitric acid , is transformed into ammonia and urea , C H5 N , H2 O=H , N+C H4 N20 .
In a similar manner the triethylated compound , when submitted to distillation , splits into ethylamine and diethylurea , C H , ( C , H , ) N , 112 0=(C , 1I- ) H2 N+ CH ( C2 , H ) N , 0 .
The transformation of cyanuric ether into the new base presents additional interest , inasmuch as it exhibits the passage of this substance into ethylamine under a new aspect .
MM .
Habich and Limpricht have already pointed out that this transformation is by no means accomplished in one bound , an indifferent intermediate compound being formed , which from its products of decomposition was found to contain C , H17 N , O , =C , H , ( C , H , ) , N3 0 , .
The same oily compound accompanies the new base which is formed by the action of ethylate of sodium upon the cyanurate of ethyl .
This substance stands midway between the ethylated base and cyanurate of ethyl , and it is thus seen that the latter passes through two intermediate stages before it is converted into ethylamine , the transformation consisting in the successive assimilation of three molecules of water , which determines the gradual elimination of the carbon of the cyanuric acid in the form of carbonic acid : C3(C2 I , ) , N3 03+ H , 0=CO , + C 2H , ( C2 H)3 N3 0 , Cyanuric ether .
Indifferent Body .
C , H , ( C , H ) , N , ,2+ 1 , 0=CO , + CH4 , ( C , , ) , N , 0 Indifferent Body .
New Base .
CH4(C2 11)8 N3 0+H 0-=CO2+ 3[H2 ( C , H ) N ] New Base .
Ethylamine .
In the transformation of cyanuric acid into ammonia , ooviously the same succession of changes must be distinguished .
In fact the intermediate products are well known , although they have not as yet been obtained directly from cyanuric acid .
The first product is the compound discovered by Wiedemann among the products of the action of heat upon urea ( cyanuric acid ) , and described by him as biuret ; the second is the guanidine of M. Strecker .
A glance at their formulae , Cyanuric acid ... .
C3 1 N3 03 , Biuret ... ... . .
C2 N3 0 Guanidine ... ... . .
C I17 N30 , shows that these substances are similarly related to each other as the derivatives of cyanuric ether , and appropriately selected methods will not fail to arrest the reaction at the intermediate stages .
Even now the cyanogen group is particularly rich in examples of serial transformations , accomplished under the influence of successively assimilated water-molecules .
Iiebig 's celebrated researches have shown that melamine before it is converted into cyanuric acid undergoes a series of changes .
Fixing water and losing ammonia in the same proportion , melamine is successively converted into ammnelide , ammeline , and cyanuric acid .
The latter , fixing water and losing carbonic acid instead of ammonia , passes through the intermediate stages , which I have endeavoured to trace , and is ultimately resolved into carbonic acid and ammonia .
The equation C3 1N6 + 6112 = 6H3N + 3CO0 Melamine .
Water , Ammonia .
CaVbonic acid .
represents the final result of the decomposition of melamine under the influence of the hydrated alkalies , but the water which figures in this equation is fixed , molecule after molecule , and the ultimate products are preceded by not less than five intermediate compounds , the successive formation and decomposition of which is illustrated by the following series of symmetrical equations : Melamine ... C6 N6 + H2 0=1H N+0 C3 H N , 0 Ammelide .
Ammelide. .
C3 H1I N5 0 H2 0= H3 N+ C3 H N4 02 Ammeline .
Ammeline. .
C3 H , N , O+ H 0=H3 N+C H3 N , 0O Cyanuric acid Cyanuric acid C3 13 N3 03 1H 0=C 0 , + Ca Hs N3 02 Biuret .
Biuret ... .
C1 , N3 02+ H02 == +O C H17 N3 0 Guanidine .
Guanidine. .
C H7N3 0 +H20=COa 0+1 N3 Ammonia .
In carrying out the experiments , which form the subject of this Note , I have been most ably assisted by Dr. C. A. Martius , to whom my best thanks are due for his zealous and skilful co-operation .

