V. " Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
XVTI Triatomic Ammonias .
By A. W. IHOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 5 , ]861 .
In a short paper which I had the honour of submitting to the Royal Society about a year ago , I endeavoured to delineate the general results to which my experiments on the Polyatomic Bases had led me .
I showed that the construction of these bodies may be accomplished in two essentially different ways .
In the first place , a number of ammonia-molecules may be joined by the insertion of a polyatomic radical , the atomicity of the radical determining the number of the ammonia-molecules thus united .
RI " Br , + n HN= [ R ' H , N , , ] ' Br , , .
Examples of compounds formed upon this principle have been furnished by my researches on the phosphonias .
Again , the accumulation of the ammonia-molecules may be attempted by increasing the number of polyatomic radicals of given atpmicity used as binding material .
It is obvious that theoretically any number of ammonia-molecules may be held together by diatomic molecules , provided we appropriately increase the number of the latter .
Diamine .
H 1N HN 1H)3| K RiYi H J}N2 11 N I-H &gt; N H ) 11j Triamine .
H ) H11 ) NHNH -N H RN H RN H ii H &gt; N HN HJ Hj J Tetramine .
H &gt; N H &gt; N iHj HiiJ In a gelneral form this second method may be expressed by the equation H- &gt; N H &gt; N HI It " i I3ii , zIR Br 2+ 2n 113 N= [ Inii 11(2+4 ) N( , + ')](nfi ) Br(+ , ) + n-1 ( [ H4 N ] Br ) , which represents the formation of the first term in each series of a succession of basic groups of increasing atornicity .
first term of a series of diammonium-compounds .
When n 1 , the H &gt; N H &gt; N ' In a general form this second method may be expressed by the abe eq uation assumes the simple fo nl Br2 Rii Br2+ 2H11 N= [ [ Rii H6 N2 ] , iBr2()n-( N r ) , which represents the formation of the first term in each series of a succession of basic groups of increasing atomicity .
The simplest case involved in this equation is the formation of the first term of a series of diammonium-compounds .
When n=-l , the above equation assumes the simple form R11 Bra +2 H3 N= [ lln Ho NJ1~ ] Br ; and if IO= ( C2 H)1i , we obtain in this manner the dibromide of ethylene-diammonium [ ( C2 H4)i He N2 ] ?
Br , , the diamine of which , undergoing further substitution , furnishes the higher members of this class of diatomic bases .
When n=2 , the above equation leads us to the conception of the first term of a series of triammonium-compounds , for 2R1i Br + 4H N= [ R21 H , N3J"'Br3 +[HN N ] Br ; and in attempting the experimental verification of this equation in the ethylene-series , we are justified in expecting , among the products of the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonia , the Tribromide of Diethylene-triammonium. .
[ ( C2 H)2ii H N3]i Br , , or among the volatile bases liberated from the bromides by the action of an alkali , the Diethylene-triamine ( C2 4)2 N3 capable , under the continued influence of dibromide of ethylene , of yielding triamines of a higher degree of substitution .
These expectations have been fully borne out by experiment .
I have satisfied myself that the volatile bases obtained by the action of dibromide of ethylene upon ammonia , which after several rectifications boil between 200 ?
and 220 ?
, consist almost exclusively of the two compounds , Diethylene-triamine C4 H3 N3(C2 H)i } N , ' and Triethylene-triamine C6 IH , , N , -(C2 H:4)3 } NH .
The separation of these two compounds , which , owing to the proximity of their boiling-points , could scarcely be effected by distillation , was attempted by transforming them into saline compounds .
But here an unexpected difficulty presented itself in the observation that the triammonias are capable of forming three classes of salts , which may be generally represented as R2i IH , N3 , 31 C1 , R2Hii I-I N3 , 2H C1 , R12i-I ] N , 1 C1 ; and that the platinum-compounds of the triatomic bases exhibit a still greater diversity of composition , these bases being not only apt to form the salts corresponding to the chlorides , viz. R2ii H5 N3 , 311 C1 , 3Pt Cl , , R2ii H5 N3 , 2E1 C1 , 2Pt C12 , Rii H N , , HC1 , PtCl , , but appearing capable even of forming compounds in which the number of dichloride-of-platinum-moleculls diminishes whilst the amount of hydrochloric acid remains constant , such as R2ii H5 N3 , 3H1 C1 , 2Pt C2 , , R2ii 1 Na , 3H C1 , Pt Cl2 .
Fortunately most of the salts , and more especially the platinumcompounds , crystallize with remarkable facility , so that the above fact being once established , the circumstances were soon determined under which the more important saline compounds could be with certainty reproduced .
The separation of the triamines was chiefly effected in the form of chlorides , bromides , and iodides , or of platinum-salts and gold-salts .
Both diethylene-triamine and triethylene-triamine are powerfully alkaline liquids , soluble in every proportion in water and alcohol , almost insoluble in ether .
They boil respectively at 2080 and 216 ?
; but owing to the comparatively small quantities with which I have had to work , these determinations may require some slight corrections .
Both bases neutralize the acids completely , giving rise to the forma .
tion of well-defined , and in most cases beautifully crystallized salts , which are generally very soluble in water , difficultly soluble in alcohol , insoluble in ether .
The aqueous solution of the salts is not precipitated by the solutions of the alkalies , owing to the solubility of the bases ; but solid hydrate of potassium separates them in the form of nearly colourless oily liquids , which rapidly attract carbonic acid from the atmosphere .
The composition of diethylene-triamine was fixed by the analysis of the free base itself , which was found to be anhydrous , C4 H13 N 1(3-C } N ; and of the triatomic chloride , bromide and iodide , which are all remarkable for the facility and beauty with which they crystallize .
These salts contain respectively , Trichloride of [ C N Cl I[C ) 1ii N Diethylene-triammonium 4 11 3p3 Tribroniide of ( C2 1TT2 NH " IT1 i Diethylene-triammonium C H6 N , 13= ~C 14)21 N C3 Tri-iodide of C1 N [ 2 T4)ii N ] iB Diethylene-triammoniuml C 1G 3 C3 [ i,13 3 I3..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H33l The platinum-salt of diethylene-triamine crystallizes in magnificent golden-yellow needles of the composition C4 Hi , N3 Pt , Cl , [ IN ii , 'Cl , 3Pt C1 , .
The platinum-salt of this , as well as of several other triammonias which I have examined , cannot be recrystallized without at least partial decomposition .
New platinum-compounds are thus produced , in some of which the chloride is united with a smaller number of molecules of dichloride of platinum , whilst others , almost insoluble in water , to judge from the enormous amount of platinum which they contain , appear to be produced by platinic substitution .
Not less definite are the results obtained in the analysis of triethylene-triamine , although , owing to the greater solubility of the compounds of this base and its tendency to form imperfectly saturated salts , the preparation of these substances presents greater difficulties .
The analysis of the free base has furnished numbers agreeing with the formula 06fiT , N3=(02H:4)a}N3 " 0HN -(C ?
2JI 1 N\ which shows that this , like the diethylenated compound , is anhydrous .
It deserves to be noticed that the tendency to form definite hydrates , so prominent in the diamines , is not met with in the case of the tri .
amines .
I have examined numerous salts of triethylene-triamine , both tri .
atomic and diatomic , which confirm the formula of the base .
In the presence of a large excess of hydrobromic and hydriodic acids , this substance forms well-crystallized triatomic compounds containing respectively , Tribromide of C H3 Triethylene-triammonium C H18 N Br-3= ( C H4 J Br , Tri-iodide of ( 1)4 I3i 1"I Triethylene-triammonium C6 l8t N3 I3 J I3 ' The solutions of these salts are powerfully acid .
From feebly acid solutions , on the other hand , salts are deposited in which only two equivalents of hydrobromic or hydriodic acids are present .
These substances contain Bromide ... .
0H , N , Br2 , ( 2 114)3 N3 , 2HBr , Iodide ... ... 06H 7 N3I2 =(021 )1y 211 .
3J The addition of free base to the solutions of the diacid salts still further reduces the bromine and iodine .
I have not , however , succeeded in obtaining the monacid compounds in a state of purity , but the analysis of mixtures leaves but little doubt regarding the existence of this class , and more especially of the compound C6 H6 N3 Br=(C2 )3 N , HBr .
In addition to the above salts , the triatomic platinum-salt and goldsalt have been submitted to analysis .
The former salt contains C0 , , N , Pt , C1- , = ( C T-4)3ii t 1o8 NPt33 C1N C0 , , 3P C12 .
It is one of the finest compounds of the group , crystallizing , as it does , in long golden-coloured needles .
They are rather soluble in water , so that the purity of the triethylenated base may be best tested in the form of this platinum-salt , since the platinum-salts of the ethylene-diamines , as well as of diethylene-triamine , with which bases the second triamine is likely to be contaminated , are far less soluble in water .
The platinum-salt cannot be recrystallized without suffering decompositions similar to those which alter the salt of the diethylenated triamine .
Left in contact with an excess of the corresponding chloride , this platinum-salt undergoes a peculiar metamorphosis .
The slender needles , after the lapse of a day or two , are found converted into well-formed prisms of considerable dimensions , containing about 8 per cent. of platinum less than the original compound .
The salt appears to be the monatomic platinum-compound , 0611 N PtOl !
( 02 '1Aii 1101 Pt C C6 H P$C V , H C1 , Pt C3 1 , , although , owing to the transformations which the salt undergoes when treated with water , I have neverbeen able to obtain it in a state of perfect purity .
The gold-salt of triethylene-triamine crystallizes in yellow plates , soluble in water , alcohol , and ether , which contain C6 H , 1N Au , 1 C=[(C H 4 ) 3 ] iiCl3 , 3Au C13 .
L4 6 .
N3j They may be recrystallized from water ; only on protracted ebullition they are decomposed with separation of metallic gold .
The triatomic ammonias , the history of which I have endeavoured to trace in this paper , are naturally connected with the triatomic alcohol discovered by Wurtz , and described by him under the name of diethylene-alcohol .
Diethylene-triamine and triethylene-triamine occupy in the series of diethylene-alcohol the position which is held by ethylamine and diethylamine , by ethylene-diamine and diethylenediamine in the series of ethylic and ethylenic alcohols respectively , ( CH)}o ( c0H,114 } ( Cg , H , ),2i HI ~ HEthyl-alcohol .
Ethylene-alcohol .
Diethylene-alcohol .
( C0 , ) ) } ( 02 4)ii N(C2 Hi HN H2 , N2 ( C2 HJ)i HNH JH , J , Ethylamine .
Ethylene-diamine .
Diethylene-triamine .
( C , H ( C , ( C1 HJ 1N ( , ( C , 1)1H Diethylamine .
Diethylene-diamine .
Triethylene-triamine .
The above formulae disclose the perfect symmetry which obtains in the construction of the diatomic and triatomic ammonias ; they also show the number and diversity of the ammonias of increasing atomicity .
If the substitution be carried to the furthest limit , viz. to the complete replacement of the hydrogen in the type ammonium , ethylenic substitution in the diatomic derivatives produces four compounds , in the same manner as ethylic substitution in ammonium itself .
The group of triatomic ethylene-ammoniums does not comprise less than five compounds , the last term of the series being a non-volatile body containing six molecules of ethylene and represented by the formula C , N 0_-[( , 14 ) N3iii " } o0 the existence of which is sure to be established experimentally by the continuation of these researches .

