I. " Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
VIII .
Action of Nitrous Acid upon Nitrophenylenediamine .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received April 5,1860 .
The experiments of Gottlieb have shown that diniitrophenylamine , when boiled with sulphide of ammonium , is converted into a remarkable base , crystallizing in crimson needles , generally known as nitrazophenylamine , and for which , in accordance with the views I entertain regarding its constitution , I now propose the name Nitrophenylenediamine .
I owe to the kindness of Dr. Vincent Hall a considerable quantity of this substance , which is not quite easily procured .
I have made a few experiments with this compound in the hope of obtaining some insight into its molecular constitution .
If , bearing in mind the numerous analogies between the radicals ethyl and phenyl , we assume that the latter , by the loss of hydrogen , may be converted into a diatomic molecule , phenylene C6 H4 , corresponding to ethylene , the existence of a group of bases corresponding to the ethylene-bases cannot be doubted .
c2 H5 W2 H4 ) ' ' Ethylamine H}N * .
Ethylenediamine H )2 N2 .
IgH6l ( ( 12)t Phenylamine H }N .
Phenylenediamine H )2 N2 .
HH H With the last-named body agrees in composition the compound known as semibenzidam , or azophenylamine , which Zinin obtained .
by exhausting the action of sniphide of ammonium on dinitrobenzol .
Those chemists , however , who have had an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the well-defined properties of ethylenediamine , will not be easily persuaded to consider the uncouth dinitrobenzol-product-sometimes appearing in brown flakes , sometimes as a yellow resin , rapidly turning green in conttact with the air-as standing to , smnooth phenylamine in a relation similar to that which obtains between ethylenediamine and ethylamine ; we much more readily admit a relation of this descriptlon between phenylamine and Gottlieb 's crimsoni-coloured base , in which the clearly pronounced character of the former is still distinctly visible , although of necessity modified by the further si bstitution which has taken place in the Tadical e Phenylamine E N. 1J ( e H14 ) 1 Phenylenediamine H2 .
Na .
Hl2 ( CJ0H3 ( NO2 ) ] ) " I Nitrophenylenediamine 1 , N , .
H2 Does the latter formula really represent the molecular constitution of the crimson needles ?
The degree of substitution of this " body might have been determined by the frequenitly adopted process of ethylation .
But even a simpler and a shorter method appeared to present itself in the beautiful mode of substituting nitrogen in the place of hydrogen , lately discovered by P. Griess .
The red crystals unridergo , indeed , the transformationi , which he has already proved for so many derivatives of ammonia , with the greatest facility .
On passing a current of nitrous acid into a moderately concentrated solution of the nitrate of the base , the liquid becomes slightly warm , and deposits on cooling a considerable quantity of brilliant white needles , the purification of which presents no difficulty : sparingly soluble in cold , readily soluble in boiling water , the new compound requires only to be once or twice recrystallized .
Thus purified , this substanice forms long prismatic crystals , frequently interlaced , white as lorng as they are in the solution , but assuming a slightly yellowish tint when dried , and especially when exposed to 1000 : they are readily soluble both in alcohol and in ether .
The new body exhibits a distinctly acid reaction ; it dissolves on application of a gentle heat in potassa and in ammonia , without , however , neutralizing the alkaline character of these liquids ; it also dissolves in the alkaline carbonates , but without expelling their carbonic acid .
The new acid fuises at 2110 C. , and sublimes at a somewhat higher temperature , withi partial decomposition .
The sublimate consists of small prismatic crvstals .
Analysis proves this substance to contain C6 H , N4 029 a formula which is confirmed by the analysis of a silver-compound , Cc ( TI , Ag ) N , 02 , and of a potassium-salt , Cd ( H3 K ) 0 , .
The analysis of the new compound shows that , under the influence of nitrous acid , nitrophenylenediamine exchanfes three molecules of hydrogen for one molecule of nitrogen , three molecules of water being eliminated .
Cl II , N , 02+ H1 NO2=2H1 10+ Cc 1 , N"t N , 02 .
NitrophenyleneNew acid .
diaminie .
I do nDt propose a name for the new compound , which can claim but a passing interest , as throwing , by its formation , some light on the constitution of nitrophenvlenediamine .
The composition of the new acid , and of its salts , shows that in the crimson-red base four hydrogeni molecules are still capable of replacement ; in other words , that this body contains four extra-radical molecules of hydrogen .
The result of these experiments appears to confirm the view which , in the commencement of this Note , I have taken of the constitution of this body ; at all evenits , the mutual relation of the several bodies is satisfactorilv illustrated by the formulae2 1 ( Cj[H3 ( NO2 ) ] " Nitrophenylenediamine 112 N ( C8[1H3 ( NO2)])"N New acid N"'I 2H ( C6[13 ( NO2)])"f Silver-salt N"'f N2 .
Ag J If the admissibility of this interpretation be confirmed by further experiments , the reaction discovered by Griess furnishes a new and valuable method of recognizing the degree of substitution in the derivatives of ammonia .
The new acid differs in many respects from the stubstances produced from other nitrogenous compounds .
As a class , these substances are remarkable for the facility with which they are changed under the influience of acids , and more especially of bases .
The new acid exhibits remarkable stability ; it may be boiled with either potassa or hydrochloric acid without undergoing the slightest change .
Even a current of nitrous acid passed into the aqueous or alcoholic solution is without the least effect .
The latter experiment appeared of some interest ; for if the action of nitrous acid , in a second phase of the process , had assumed the form so frequently observed by Piria and others , it might have led to the formation of the diatomic nitrophenylenie-alcohol , according to the equation ( C [ 113 ( NO2 ) ] ) " ( 0 1 [ 13 ( NO2 ) ] ) " t lO 113 N2+211N02=21120+N4 + H2 J 112 It deserves to be noticed that nitrophenylenediamine , although derived from two molecules of ammonia , is nevertheless a decidedly monacid base .
Gottlieb 's analyses of the chloride , nitrate , and sulphate left scarcely a doubt on this point .
However , as some of the natural bases , quinine for instance , are capable of combining with either one or two molecules of acid , I thought it of sufficient interest to confirm Gottlieb 's observations by some additional experiments .
The crystals deposited on cooling from a solution of nitrophenylenediamine in concentrated hydrochloric acid , were washed with the s. am liquid and dried in vacuo over lime .
Analysis led to the formula { ( C [ H ( NO ) ] ) " }Nl The dilute solution of this chloride is not precipitated by dichloride of platinum , nor can the double salt of the two chlorides be obtained by evaporating the mixed solutions , which , just as Gottlieb observed it , is readily decomposed with separation of metallic platinum .
I had , however , no difficulty in preparing a platiinumn salt , crystallizing in splendid long brown-red prisms , by adding the dichloride of platinum to the concentrated solution of the hydrochlorate .
The platinum determiniationi led to the formula LI ( C0 [ 113(NO2 ) ] ) " }I LI11I2 JN2 C1 , PtC12 These experiments prove that , even under the most favourable circumstances , nitrophenylenediamine combines only with 1 equiv. of acid , while the ethylene-derivatives are decidedly diacid .
The diminution of saturating power in nitrophenylenediamine , at the first glance , seems somewhat anomalous , but the anomaly disappears if the constitution of the body be more accurately examined .
It cannot be doubted that the diminution of the saturating power is duie to the substitution which has taken place in the radical of the diamine .
I have pointed out at an earlier period * , that the basic character of phenylamine is considerably modified by successive chanlges introduced into the phenyl-radical by substitution .
Chlorphenylamine , though less basic than the normal compound , still forms well-defined salts with the acids ; the salts of dichlorphenylamine , on the other hand , are so feeble , that , under the influence of boiling water , they are split into their constituents ; in trichlorphenylamine , lastly , all basic characters have entirely disappeared .
Again , on examining the nitro-substitutes of phenylamine , we find that even nitrophenylamine is anl exceedingly weak base , whilst dinitrophenylamine is perfectly indifferent .
What wonder , then , that a molecular system , to which in the normal condition we attribute a diacid character , should , by the insertioni of special radicals , be reduced to monoacidity ?
The normal phenyleniediamine , which remains to be discovered , will doubtv Mcrn .
of Chem. Soc. vol. ii .
p. 298 .
less be found to be diacid , like the diamines derived from ethylenle .
Even now the group of diacid diamines is represented in the naphtylseries : CIO H7 Naphtylamine HN monoacid .
H ( CIO He)"ft Naphtylenediamine H2 N diacid .
112 The body which I designate by the term Naphtylenediamine , is the base which Zinin obtained by the final actioni of sulphide of ammonium upon dinitronaphtaline .
This substance , originally designated seminaphtalidam , and subsequently described as naphtalidine , combines , according to Zinin 's experiments , with 2 equivalents of hydrochloric acid* .

