IX .
An experimental enquiry into the nature of the radiant heating ffects from terrestrial sources .
By BADEN POWELL , M. A. F. R. S. of Oriel College , Oxford .
Read February 17 , 1825 .
( 1 .
) T HE nature of the heating effict emanating from luminous hot bodies has been distinctly shown to be , in many particulars , very different from that evolved from non-luminous sources ; but the ideas commonly entertained on the subject , are far from being precise and distinct .
To gain if possible some ground for establishing more clear views , is the object of the following enquiries .
( 2 .
) Professor LESLIE , in his well known and elegant experiments , ( Inquiry concerning Heat , &amp;c. chap .
iii .
) has fully established the theory of the effect of screens on radiant heat ; and these effects give some of the most important criteria for examining the nature of radiating agents .
Those experiments apply only to the heat evolved from a non-luminous source .
It therefore naturally becomes the subject in question , whether the interceptive power of glass is not limited to a certain temperature , or state , of the radiating source ; and to this point accordingly the attention of several eminent observers has been directed in many well known investigations , among which those of M. DE LA ROCHE are justly regarded as the most important and complete .
In these experiments it appears , that a greater effect is produced on a blackened thermometer when a glass screen is interposed , in proportion as the body under trial approaches nearer its point of luminosity , or becomes more intensely luminous .
( BIOT , Traite de Phys. tom .
iv .
p. 638 .
) ( Ann. of Philos. 0 .
S. vol. ii .
p. 163 .
) Both M. DE LA ROCHE and M. BIOT ( See BIOT , iv .
612 .
) seem disposed to view the results obtained by the former upon the supposition of one simple agent , the principle both of light and heat .
This is at first radiated as heat g at a certain point it begins to assume the form of light , when the interceptive power of glass decreases in proportion to the increase of luminosity .
( 3 .
) As long as the hot body continues below the temperature of luminosity , the partial or total interception of the effect is precisely the same phellomenon as that described by Professor LESLIE in his experiments on screens and explicable in the same way ; ( Phil. Trans. 1816 , Part I. On new Properties of Heat , Prop. 40 .
) And the apparent transmission of a portion of the effect must be referred to the same principle , as is clearly shown by Dr. BREWSTER , who has established , apparently beyond contradiction , the impermeability of glass to simple radiant heat upon quite independent principles .
( 4 .
) Above the temperature of luminosity we must have recourse to further considerations .
The hypothesis of M. M. DE LA ROCHE and BIOT appears to be nearly the same as that of Professor LESLIE ( Inquiry , p. 162 ) .
And it certainly has the merit of simplicity and satisfactory explanation of the phenomena .
But it is an opinion which has not received direct proof ; and it is also obvious , that the phenomena may be explained without it ; for we may just as well account for the facts , by supposing two distinct heating influences , one associated in some very close way with the rays of light , carried as it were by them through a glass screen without heating it ; the other being merely simple radiant heat , affected by the screen exactly as the radiant heat from a nonluminous body .
( 5 .
) In order to ascertain which of these suppositions is true , it will not be sufficient to observe the effects produced by the intervention of a screen alone .
We must combine this method with an examination of the relations of different sorts of heat to suraces .
These relations have been shown to differ according as the body is luminous , or not ; in the one case , the direct heat affects bodies in proportion to the darkness of their colour , without regard to the texture of their surface : in the other , the magnitude of the effect depends solely on the absorptive texture without reference to colour .
I use the term " absorptive texture , " to signify that peculiar state of division in the particles of the surface , which has been shown , by Professor LESLIE and others to be most susceptible of the influence of simple radiant heat , and always to give a proportionally greater radiating power .
The question then is entirely one of facts ; and involves no hypothesis as to the nature either of light or of heat .
The object is simply to ascertain by experiment , whether , of the total heating effect radiated from a luminous hot body , the portion intercepted by a transparent screen is of the same nature as , or different from the part transmitted in its relations to the surfaces on which it acts .
( 6 .
) In conformity with this view of the object proposed , 189 the general principle of the following experiments is this : taking different luminous hot bodies , to expose to their influence two thermometers presenting , one , a smooth black surface , the other an absorptive white one : thus obtaining the ratio of the total direct effect on the two , we may compare it with the ratio similarly observed , when a transparent screen is interposed .
( 7 .
) This principle of experimenting was applied with one or two variations : and though in the abstract sufficiently simple , it will in practice require an attention to several considerations .
I shall therefore proceed in the first instance to the detail of the different particulars ; then give the results of the experiments in a tabular form ; and lastly , recapitulate the conclusions , and make a few general remarks .
L ( 8 .
) In the following set of experiments two common thermometers were employed .
The diameters of their bulbs were , thermometer A , 0,.6 inch , ; B , 0.55 .
A , was coated with a wash of chalk and water , and B , with indian ink .
In order to compare the effects to be observed with those of simple radiant heat , I ascertained the ratio of the effects of the latter on the two bulbs thus coated , by a few preliminary trials ; and found it to be very nearly one of equality , or perhaps the efifct of the white rather greater than that of the black .
The two thermometers were graduated to quarters of centigrade degrees ; and were both fixed on one mounting with their bulbs detached about one inch from its lowest part , and at the distance of about three-quarters of an inch from each other .
( 9 .
) In the od set of experiments they were fixed into the top of a box , the front of which was open , so that the glass screen could be applied to it or not , as required .
When the screen was not used the box would acquire more heat , and radiate-it to the bulbs in a small degree ; which affecting them in the inverse ratio of their diameters , would diminish the ratio of their risings .
That this diminution was very trifling , and not at all sufficient to account for the observed difference of ratio will be evident , because the ist set was made without employing the box , the thermometers being suspended at a distance from any object which could radiate heat to them ; and in this set the difference of ratio is quite as conspicuous .
This remark applies likewise to the possible communication of heat by the air .
( lo .
) We must also take into consideration the effect due to the glass screen .
When we consider the two bulbs as heated only by that part of the radiation which is transmitted through the screen , the screen may be regarded simply as a third body placed near the two bulbs ; and whether it possesses a higher or a lower temperature , there will be a tendency to bring all three to an equality in proportion to the difference of temperature , and in the bulbs , dependent on their diameters modified by the state of their surfaces .
This effect arises from simple radiant heat , whilst that derived from the luminous hot body , is evidently following a different law with regard to the surfaces .
It will easily follow from what has been already shown , that such a secondary heating , effect will be of a kind tending to diminish the ratio otherwise obtainin.g between the effects on the two bulbs .
If the effect were of a cooling nature , the same thing would also take place : for I ascertained that the radiating powers of the g19 coatings employed , deduced from the observed rates of cooling , were in a ratio which happened to be almost exactly the inverse of that of the diameters ; but this effect is probably always small , and I have roughly allowed for it , as will be seen immediately ; taking the temperature of the screen by a small thermometer having its bulb in contact with the central part of the surface .
II .
( l. ) I now proceed to state the results , which will be most conveniently exhibited in a tabular form .
Ist Set .
Incandescent iron .
Distance 7 inches , Glass screen .
Experiment .
Rise of Thermometer in i min. centigrade .
A. White .
B. Black .
1 1.25 2.5 2 , 1.25 13 Mean 1.25 2.75 Allowing for the screen 7 ( as below .
2 No screen .
1175I 9,757 12I 6.5 7.75 Mean 7 .
8.75 Difference of exposed 6 and screened results .
5 6 ( 12 .
) Argand lamp without its chimney .
Distance s inches .
Glass screen .
Rise of Thermometers in Experiment .
i min. centigradge .
A. White .
B. Black .
1.75 1.75 2.1 5 2.25 3.75 1 2.25 Mean.66 2.0o8 Allowing for the screen..41 1.83 No Screen .
l 1.75 3.5 e -1.75 3.25 31 e. 3.5 Mean 1.83 3.41 Difference of exposed } and screened results .
1 -42 ( 13 .
) IId .
Set .
Incandescent iron .
Distance 6 inches .
Glass screen 2 inches from bulbs .
Temp. of screen be .
fore experiment by thermometer in contact .
16.5 16.5 17 17 17 Rise of Thermometers in i min , ( centigrade .
) A. White .
1..5.5.5.5 B. Black .
1.5 1.25 1.5 1 .
1 .
Mean.6 1.25 Effect of the screen alone , heated above 25 ? .
1.25 25 2.25.25 The former result diminished }51 for this effect .
f 51 Incandescent iron .
No screen .
1 3 .
3.5 2 3 .
4 .
3 2.75 3.5 4 3.3 3.75 5 3.3 4 .
Mean 2.95 3.75 Difference of the exposed and 2.6 .
screened results .
75 U 04.0 W 04 1234 5 ( 14 .
) Flame of an Argand lamp without its chimney .
Distance 3 inches .
Glass screen 1.5 inch from bulbs .
Rise of Thermometers in Temperature of , , screen before expeI mn .
( centigrade .
) screen after cxriment .
periment .
mgn^ ~ A. White .
B. Black .
1 17 1.25 2.25 23 .
2 1.25 2.25 3 1.75 2.25 4 1.25 2.75 5 1 .
2.25 Mean 1.3 2.35 Effect of the screen alone , heated above 250 .
I|I.25.25 The former result diminished } .
2.10 from this effect .
1-05 210 Lamp .
No screen .
1 12.25 3 .
2 2.5 3.25 3 2.25 3 .
4 2.2.5 3.25 5 2.5 3.5 Mean 2.35 3.2 Difference of the exposed and screened results .
f ( 15 .
) In these experiments it will be evident upon inspection , that the ratio of the effects produced on the white and black bulbs , is in every instance considerably greater when they were affected only by that part of the total heating influence which is transmitted through a transparent screen , than when they were exposed to the whole .
This then would indicate , that on the removal of the screen some new heating power was brought into action which affected the ratio by the addition to each of its terms , of quantities in a ratio expressed by that of the difference of the exposed and screened results above given .
This ratio is evidently one differing a little from equality , and agreeing nearly with that of the diameters of the bulbs inversely .
( i6 .
) The experiments now detailed will probably be considered sufficient to substantiate the conclusion ; but in researches of this kind , where great numerical precision is unattainable ; it seemed desirable to give the experiments that confirmation which they wanted in point of intrinsic accuracy , by frequent repetition and variation .
With this view I made a great number of trials with a large differential thermometer ; the bulbs were about one inch in diameter and nearly three inches apart .
The bore of the tube was about I of an inch .
Many of the experiments made with this instrument I shall not mention , as , although all agreeing to confirm my former conclusions , they were complicated by several unnecessary conditions .
( 17 .
) In order to obtain results in the most simple manner , it was desirable to get rid of any action on one of the bulbs , and to expose only the other ; the instrument thus acting simply as an air thermometer .
The effects on each bulb , one being painted with indian ink , and the other coated with white silk pasted on , when exposed , might thus be compared with those through a glass screen .
I first tried the experiment by placing the bulb in the focus of a spherical tin reflector about six inches diameter ; by this means the source of heat could be placed at a sufficient distance to preclude any effect from the glass screen .
( 18 .
) The experiment was again varied by placing a large opake screen before the instrument , in which was an aperture through which one bulb might be exposed .
To this aperture a piece of glass could be applied ; each bulb was presented both with and without the glass .
( 19 .
) In all these experiments it is evident , that any heating effect arising from the screen , would tend to diminish the ratio of the black and white effects ; and this not being allowed for in the statement of the result , the difference between this ratio and that of the exposed effects will be in reality greater than appears .
The result are comprised in the following table .
( 20 .
) Lamp .
Bulb in the focus of a reflector .
Coatings white silk , and indian ink .
Screened .
Exposed .
Experiments .
White .
Black .
White .
Black .
15 '8 Xl 15 24 19 13 15 36 411 12 I Mean in 3o sec. 5 9.3 12 15 197 ( 21 .
) Incandescent iron .
( 22 .
) Lamp .
One bulb covered by an opake screen , the other exposed at an aperture .
Dist .
5 inches .
Screen 1.5 inch from bulb .
1468 I11 2 3.5 6 , 6 9.5 12 3468 10.5 ' 4368 12 Mean in i min. 3.6 6 8.3 11.3 Incandescent iron .
in 3sosec .
34 12 9 ( 24 .
) It is perhaps not worth while to make any formal deductions from these results as to the ratios subsisting in the different cases .
It will be sufficiently evident upon inspectiol , that when all due allowances are made , the ratio of the effects upon the white and black bulbs is considerably greater when they were affected only by the transmissible part of the heating effect , than when they were exposed to the whole .
The part then which is added on the removal of the screen , is of a nature tending to add to the terms of the former ratio quantities in a ratio much nearer equality : quantities in a ratio very nearly that which the effects of simple radiant heat would give .
III .
( o5 .
) I have above adverted to all the sources of error which occur to me as likely to have affected these results ; and when these are taken into consideration , as well as the nature of the experiments and apparatus , the accordance which the different results exhibit , is perhaps as close as we can expect ; and it appears that all the different sets of experiments agree in showing a very considerable difference in the ratio of the effects produced on a smooth black , and on an absorptive white surface , by that part of the radiant effect transmitted through glass , and by the total effect .
If the total direct effect were the result of one simple agent , the intervention of the glass would , by intercepting some part of it , produce no other alteration than a diminution of intensity ; the ratio of the two effects would remain unchanged .
This distinction appears to me of some importance towards clearing our ideas respecting the nature of the phenomena , and thus affording an answer to the question originally proposed in reference to some theoretical views , which , though boasting the sanction of high authority , will be untenable if the validity of these results be admitted .
( 26 .
) The general conclusions from all these experiments may be thus recapitulated : Ist .
That part of the heating effect of a luminous hot body which is capable of being transmitted in the way of direct radiation through glass , affects bodies in proportion to their darkness of colour , without reference to the texture of their surfaces .
2d .
That which is intercepted produces a greater effect in 199 proportion to the absorptive nature of texture of the surface , without respect to colour .
These two characteristics are those which distinguish simple radiant heat at all intensities .
Thus then when a body is heated at lower temperatures , it gives off only radiant heat stopped entirely by the most transparent glass , and acting more on an absorptive white surface than on a smooth black one .
At higher temperatures the body still continues to give out radiant heat , possessing exactly the same characters .
But at a certain point it begins to give out light : precisely at this point it begins also to exercise another heating power distinct from the former ; a power which is capable of passing directly through transparent screens , and which acts more on a smooth black surface than on an absorptive white one .
( 27 .
) This last sort of heat , whatever its nature may be , is essentially different from simple radiant heat .
It appears to agree very closely with what the French philosophers term " Calorique lumineux , " and is according to Professor LESLIE'S theory , a conversion of light into heat .
These views of the subject are certainly gratuitous assumptions .
We have no right whatever to identify those two agents , or to suppose that , because a heating effect very closely accompanies the course of the rays of light , the light is therefore converted into heat ; but the theories above alluded to , seem to regard the whole heating effect of a luminous body as of this latter character .
In this particular , the present inquiry has led us to an essential distinction ; and if the experiments are to be relied upon , this peculiar sort of heat constitutes only apart of the total effect .
These results do not indeed present so simple a theory as that alluded to , but they apply very obviously to the explanation of many phenomena recorded by various experimenters .
( 28 .
) The peculiar heat above spoken of , and which , for the sake of distinction and brevity , we may call " transmissible heat , " is similar to that which acts in the solar rays , and which there constitutes the total effect .
It is this kind of heat which has been employed as a principle of photometry , on the assumption that it is precisely proportional to the intensity of light .
Within certain limits this may be the case but there are unquestionably circumstances under which the relation is very different ; such for example , as difference of colour in the light : and in general it cannot be assumed to hold good in light from different sources .
To show this , there is a remarkable instance in incandescent metal , which produces but very faintly illuminating rays , yet its c6 transmissible heat " is very considerable .
I have repeatedly tried the experiment with a small " photometer , " having one bulb painted with indian ink and the other plain ; the bulbs being in a vertical line ; this instrument whether employed with or without its case , or a glass screen , always gave an effect of about o10 in So " at eight inches distance from a ball of iron heated to the brightest point in a common fire .
( 29 .
) In making these last experiments , the effect was always greater when the instrument was used without its case , or a glass screen .
This was no doubt in part owing to the greater action of the simple heat now admitted to the instrument on the coated , than on the plain bulb ; but it was also in part occasioned by the circumstance , that the stem going to the upper bulb passes in contact with the lower , and being a solid mass compared with the thin bulb , is slower in acquiring heat , and therefore cools it , thus increasing the apparent effect on the other .
( so .
) In a variety of other experiments which I have tried , using either this " photometer , " or another having the bulbs at equal heights , various apparent anomalies presented themselves , all which I found easily explained on the principles here established of two radiations , when connected with the various other considerations to which it is necessary to refer when employing instruments of this description ; but I do not conceive it necessary to enter into any further details .
From the Press of WI .
NICOL , Cleveland-row , St. James 's , London .
202

