IL .
C " On the Light radiated by heated Bodies .
" By BALFOUR STEWART , Esq. , A.M. Communicated by J. P. GASSIOT , Esq. Received February 7 , 1860 .
In two papers read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh in the years 1858 and 1859 , and published in their Transactions , I have described some experiments on radiant heat , which would seem to involve an extension of Prevost 's theory of radiation , known as the theory of exchanges .
As the paper which I have now the honour to submit to this Society will detail analogous experiments on radiant light , I may be permitted briefly to refer to those points in my previous papers which are thus intimately connected with the present subject .
In attempting to unfold the logical consequences of Prevost 's theory , certain properties of radiant heat present themselves to our view , many of which are capable of experimental verification .
The following are some of these ; and , for convenience-sake , I shall follow up the statement of each ( before proceeding to the next ) with a description of the analogous property of radiant light , as in this way the similarity which exists between heat and light will be most readily perceived .
In the first place , the heat radiated by a thin plate of any substance at a given temperature , is proportional to the absorptive capacitY of that suibstance for the heat of that temperature ; or , in few words , its radiation is equal to its absorption .
Rock-salt , for instance , has a small absorptive capacity for heat of 2120 F. , and , in consequence , its radiation when heated to 2120 F. is comparatively small .
In point of fact , a plate of this substance , 0 18 inch thick , only gives out 15 per cent. of the heat which lamp-black radiates at the same tenmperature .
Glass , on the other hand , absorbing nearly all the heat of 2120 F. which falls upon it , has at this temperature a radiation comparatively great , and nearly equal to that of lamp-black .
A similar law holds with regard to radiant light .
If a piece of perfectly transparent glass be heated in an ordinary fire , removed to the dark , and there viewed , it will be found to emit scarcely any light ; if the glass be slightly coloured , its radiation will be more copiouIs ; the amount of light given out , as far ag I have been able to make the comparison , invariably depending upon the depth of colour or absorptive power of the glass for light , provided its colour stands heating .
A good way of performing this experiment is to heat a dark glass by the side of a colourless one , by means of a chemical tongs , in some uniform field of heat .
When viewed in the dark together , the contrast is very striking between the bright light of the one and the bare visibility of the other .
A stratum of heated gas may likewise be instanced as a substance which neither absorbs nor emits light to a sensible extent ; and it has similar properties with respect to heat .
Let us now proceed to another consequence of Prevost 's theory .
It is well known , from Melloni 's experiments , that thin pIlates of various substances have the property of sifting the heat which falls upont them ; they stop certain rays , and allow others to pass ; the heat stopped being of one description , and the heat passed of another .
Now , it may be shown to flow from the theory of exchanges , that the heat radiated by a thin plate of any substance at a giveil temperature is precisely that description of heat which the plate absorbs when heat of that temperature is allowed to fall upon it .
The heat which it absorbs being that kind of heat which has a difficulty in passing through it , if the heat which it radiates be of this description also , it follows that the heat given out by a plate of any substance will experience difficulty in passing through a screen of the samue substanice .
This we firnd to be the case : thuis , a plate of rock-salt 0 77 inch thick passes only 30 per cent. of the heat from a thin plate of rock-salt heated to 212 ?
F. , whereas it will pass 75 per ceint .
of heat from lamp-black at that temperature .
The same thing holds with regard to glass .
A thini plate of crown glass will only pass half as much heat from heated crown glass as from heated lamp-black .
But this peculiar quality of the radiating plate is destroyed if we coat the side of it furthest from the screen with lampblack ; it then behaves precisely as lamp-black alone would do .
The reason of this is that the rays of heat given out by the glass are the equivalent of those which it absorbs from the lamp-black behind ; so that bothtogether give out the saime heat in quantity and quality as lamp-black would alone .
We have here also ainalogous properties of light .
Let us take a number of differently coloured glasses .
With respect to the light of an ordinary fire , these may be divided into two groups ; viz , those which redden , and those which whiten the fire when we look through them .
The first group comprises red and orange glasses ; the second group green and blue glasses .
Glasses of the former group absorb the whiter , glasses of the latter group , the redder descriptions of light .
We should therefore expect red and orange glasses to give oiut , when heated , a peculiarly white light , and green and blue glasses a pecuiliarly red light .
A number of red and orange glasses have been found which fulfil this expectation .
Among the reds , those coloured by gold , when removed from the fire and held in the dark , give out a milky-white , or even greenish light ; and the orange glasses used by photographers do the same .
Other glasses , of a dingy red tint , give out , when heated , light slightly whiter than the ordinary light of their temperature ; while there are others in which I have not , by this somewhat rude method of experimenting , been able to detect a sensible peculiarity of tint : yet this is not to be wondered at , if it be remembered that the following is the method in which the experiment is made .
The glass under examination is held in a tongs , along with another glass , opaque or nearly so , which gives out light of the ordinary description .
They are heated together in the same field of heat , and then viewed in the dark as they cool .
During this process the tint of each changes , becoming somewhat redder as the temperature falls .
A difference in the temperature of the two glasses might therefore cloak or even reverse the peculiar difference of tint which it is sought to establish , unless this is very marked .
This difficulty would be got over if we could by any means compare glasses of different tints at precisely the same temperature in the dark together ; but I have not yet succeeded in contriving an apparatus for this purpose .
With respect to glasses that whiten the fire when used as screens , these all , without exception , as far as I have tried , give out a red description of light ; and this is peculiarly remarkable in some lightgreen glasses .
The following circumstance renders some glasses unfit for experiment .
They absorb nearly all the red light of low temperature , and it is only when the light rises to a white that a notable proportion is allowed to pass .
Now if the law be true that the radiation is equal to the absorption , these glasses should , at a low red heat , give out nearly the whole light belonging to their temperature , the same as if they were opaque .
It is only therefore when we raise the temperature that we can expect any result in the way of peculiarity of tint ; for it is only then that the glasses , as screens , allow a notable proportion of light to pass , and that of a peculiar character ; but the glass has now assumed a pasty condition , which renders it unfit to work with .
Those glasses , therefore , are to be preferred that allow a considerable proportion of all the kinds of light to pass : for , just as in heat the radiation is most peculiar in rock-salt , which absorbs but little heat ; so in light the best results are obtained by glasses that absorb only a small proportion of the light that falls upon them .
As a proof of this , I may mention that difference of tint is very noticeable in the process of spinning threads of coloured glass .
The heated red glass thread has , when being spun , a pale green hue , while the green glass thread has , under the same circumstances , a decidedly reddish appearance .
These threads do not absorb much light , but what they do absorb is of a peculiar kind .
It has been mentioned that a screen of glass is peculiarly opaque for heat from glass ; but if the side of the radiating plate furthest from the screen be coated with lamp-black , its heat now passes the glass screen as readily as ordinary heat of that temperature .
A similar fact is noticeable with regard to light .
A red glass , which , when heated and viewed in the dark , gives out a greenish light , while in the fire scarcely appears to differ in tint from the surrounding coals ; and the same fact holds for all coloured glasses .
Ultimately they all appear to lose their colour in the fire as they approach in temperature the coals around them .
This may be explained thus : the red glass , for instance , still gives out its greenish light ; but it passes red light from the coals behind it , in such a manner that the light which it radiates precisely makes up for that which it absorbs ; so that we have virtually a coal radiation coming partlyfrom and partly through the glass .
Let us now consider Prevost 's theory with regard to bodies of indefinite thickness .
One of its consequences was experimentally discovered by Leslie ; viz. that metals which are good reflectors of heat are very bad radiators .
As a variety of this experiment , I have endeavoured to show that a powdered diathermanous body will radiate less than bodies which are opaque for heat , powdered .
Thus , if a plate of table-salt have one side blackened , the white side will radiate only 83 per cent. of that which the blackened side radiates at the temperature of 2120 F. No such difference is observed in sugar , which , though white for light , is black for heat of 212 ? .
We have here also similar facts with regard to light .
If a pot of red-hot lead or tin be carried to the dark , and the dross scummed aside by means of a red-hot iron ladle , the liquid metal momentarily disclosed will appear less luminous than the surrounding dross ; the difference being more observable in the case of tin , which has a higher reflecting power than lead .
Also , if a piece of platinum , partly polished and partly tarnished , be held above a flame in a dark room , the tarnished portion will shine much more brilliantly than the polished .
Again , if we take a china cup with a white and black pattern , and heat it to a white heat in the fire , while there we shall not perceive much difference between the white and black of the pattern ; but , if we bring it into a dark room , we shall perceive the black to shine much more brilliantly than the white .
This reversal of the pattern presents a very curious appearance .
Finally , it is a consequence of Prevost 's theory and au experimental fact , that opaque bodies , generally speaking , radiate the same description of heat at the same temperature .
In like manner , the light which they radiate is of the same description at the same temperature ; one body is not red while a second is yellow and a third white , but they are all either red or yellow , or white together .
An analogy has thus been established between radiant heat and light in certain of their properties .
Now two opinions have been entertained with regard to light:1st .
Some have regarded it as differing from radiant heat only in .
wave length .
2nd .
Others have regarded the two as physically distinct , although possessing many properties in common .
It has even been thounht that some kinds of light have no heating effect on the bodies on which they fall .
I cannot but think that the facts just stated countenance the former opinion rather than the latter : for Prevost 's theory consists of the three following hypotheses : I st. That if an enclosure of any kind be kept at a uniform temperature , any body placed within the enclosure , and surrounded by it on all sides , will ultimately attain that temperature .
2nd .
That all bodies are constantly giving out radiant heat , at a rate depending upon their substance and temperatuire , but independent of the substance or temperature of the bodies that surround them .
3rd .
And , conisequently , that when a body is kept at a uniform temperature , it receives back just as much heat as it gives out .
From these three assumptions may be deduced all the fcts that have been stated with regard to radiant heat ; but in the argument it is essential that the rays under coinsideration shall have the property of heating the bodies on which they fall , and by which they are absorbed .
If this be not granted the arguiment fails .
Now radiant light , or those rays only that affect the retina , have been found to possess properties analogous to those which radiant heat thus possesses in virtue of its departure lowering the temperature of the body which it leaves , and its absorption raising that of the body on which it falls .
If , therefore , we suppose all kinds of radiant light to have the property of raising ( however little ) the temperature of the body by which they are absorbed , the facts that have been stated in this paper regarding light may be shown to be a natural consequence of Prevost 's theory of exchainges , but if , on the other hand , we do not admit that all the kinds of radiant light given out by heated bodies possess this property , then in that case those facts cannot be explained by Prevost 's theory , but they will require a new theory to account for them .
This circumstance induces me to think that all the descriptions of light radiated by heated bodies have the power of heating , more or less , those bodies by which they are absorbed .
Viewing the matter in this light , I have constructed the following Table , in which the logical consequences of Prevost 's theory are stated in the first column , while opposite these in the second column are detailed the different experiments which they serve to explain .
Table of the consequences of Prevost 's theory , and the facts which they explain .
Consequences of Prevost 's theory .
Facts which these conisequences explain .
r Rock-salt which absorbs little heat of 212 ?
F. , gives out little ; while glass , which absorbs much , gives out much .
The heat radiated by rock-salt has great difficulty in passing through a screen of rock-salt the heat radiated by glass in passing through a screen of Irhe radiation of a thin plate or parglass .
ticle is equal to its absorption , and that Colourless glass , when heated , gives for every description of heat-that is to out little light , opaque glass a great deal .
say , in quality as well as in quantity .
Red glass , which absorbs the greenish rays , gives out greenish rays ; while green glass , which absorbs the red rays , gives out red rays .
When a plate of glass is coated on its further side with lamp-black , its heat is the same as lamp-black heat .
All coloured glasses appear to lose their colour in the fire .
f Metals radiate little , both of heat and Those opaque bodies which reflect ight .
Table-salt , which is white for most , radiate least .
Opaque bodies geheat of 2120 , radiates less than sugar , nerally give out the same kind of rays which is black .
When a black and white at the same temperature these words china cup is heated in the fire and held also express the known fact .
j in the dark , the black of the patterni is m more lumih ous than the white , 1n conclusion , I may be permitted to remark regarding these laws of light , that from their simple nature some of them may have been observed before , but I think they are now for the first time connected with a theory of radiation .
Supplement ( added March 7 , 1860).-Since writing the above , the law which asserts that the absorption of a thin plate or particle is proportional to its radiation for every description of light , has received a very beautiful colnfirmation .
In the Philosophical Magazine for this month , pages 194-196 , Professor Stokes has noticed some very interesting experiments of M. Foucault , and also of Professor Kirchhoff .
M. Foucault finds as the result of his experiments , " that the voltaic arc formed between charcoal poles presents us with a mediuim which emits the ray D of the solar spectrum on its own account , and which at the same time absorbs it when it comes from another quarter .
" Professor Kirchhoff , again , finds as the result of his experiments on the spectra of coloured flames , " 1 that coloured flames , in the spectra of which bright sharp lines present themselves , so weaken rays of the colour of these lines , when such rays pass through the flames , that , in place of the bright lines , dark ones appear as soon as there is brought behind the flame a source of light of sufficient intensity , in the spectrum of which these lines are otherwise wanting .
" We thus see that the same media which in a heated state emit rays of a certain refrangibility in great abundance , have also the property of stopping these very rays when they fall upon them from another quarter , or , in other words , their absorption of such rays is proportional to their radiation of them .
Su.pplement ( added March 8 , 1860).-The following fact noticed by Professor Kirchhoff is also in accordance with the theory brought forward in this paper .
" The spectrum of the Drummond light , " he remarks , " c contains , as a general rule , the two bright lines D , if the luminous spot of the cylinder of lime has not long been exposed to the white heat ; if the cylinder remains unmoved these lines become weaker , andfinallyvanish altogether .
If they have vanished , or only faintly appear , an alcohol flame into which salt has been put , and which is placed between the cylinder of lime and the slit , causes two dark lines of remarkable sharpness and fineness to show themselves in their stead ; but the Drummond light requires , in order that the lines D should come out in it dark , a salt-flame of lower temperature .
The flame of alcohol containing water is fitted for this , but the flame of Bunsen 's gas-lamp is not .
With the latter the smallest mixture of common salt , as soon as it makes itself generally perceptible , causes the bright lines of sodium to show themselves .
" Now , when we heat a piece of ruby glass in the fire , we have an analogous phenomenon .
As long as the ruby glass is of a lower temperature than the coals behind it , the light given out is of a red description , because the ruby glass stops the green : the green here is precisely anialogous therefore to the line D , which is stopped by an alcohol flame into which salt has been put .
Should , however , the ruby glass be of a much higher temperature than the coals behind it , the greenish light which it radiates overpowers the red which it transmits , so that the light which reaches the eye is green more than red .
This is precisely analogous to what is observed when a Bunsen 's gas-lamp with a little salt is placed before the Drummond light , when the line D is no longer dark but bright .
In fact , the law , " the absorption of a particle is equal to its radiation , and that for every kind of light , " only applies to the case where the temperature of the particle is equal to that of the source of the light which passes through the particle .
If the temperature of the source of light be greater , one quality of light will predominate ; if , on the other halnd , the temperature of the particle be greater , another quality of light will predominate .

