VII .
" Description of an Instrument for registering Changes of Temperature .
" By BALFOUR STEWART , Esq. Communicated by J. P. GASSIOT , Esq. , F.R.S. , Chairman of the Kew Observatory Committee of the British Association .
Received June 12 , 1856 .
It lately occurred to the author that advantage might be taken of the capillary action of mercury to construct an instrument similar to a thermometer , but in which the mercury should expand from heat only in one tube , and contract from cold only in another .
Accordingly a bulb was blown between two thermometric tubes of differentlysized bores , in such a manner that the tubes lay in one straight line , with the bulb between them .
The bulb was then filled with mercury , and the tubes were hermetically sealed at both ends , having been first carefully deprived of air .
When the instrument thus constructed was laid in a horizontal position , or nearly so , its action was precisely what the author had hoped ; the mercury contracting from cold only in the narrow bore , and expanding from heat only in the wide one , -even when viewed by a microscope of considerable magnifying power .
It was suggested by Mr. Welsh , Director of the Kew Observatory , that such an instrument might be used for measuring fluctuations of atmospheric temperature ; and the following use afterwards occurred to the author .
Were it required to exactly estimate the radiating effect of a source of heat , it might perhaps be done by placing this instrument near the source , alternately exposing it to the influence of the calorific rays proceeding from the source , and intercepting these by means of a screen .
Owing to the peculiar action of the mercury alluded to , the effect of the rays would be multiplied by the number of times the screen was interposed , provided it were always retained long enough to permit the mercury to cool down .
The comparison of an instrument thus acted upon with another similar instrument near it , screened entirely from the source of heat , might famrnish us with a means of exactly estimating the heating effect of the source .
The author desires to express his obligation to Mro Welsh , who , besides finding a use for the instrument , suggested the selection of tubes which appears to an ; swer best , and whose experience was of great assistance in arranging details .
He is also indebted to the Kew Committee of the British Association , who kindly examined the instrument , and authorized the construction of several by way of trial .
Mr. Casella undertook the operative part in their construction , .
and his glass-blower , Mr. J. E. Griffin , took pains to discover some of the circumstances that interfere with the proper action of the instrument , and constructed those that have proved successful .
Without attempting to explain all the peculiarities of this action , it would seem that the mercury is kept in the narrow bore , and prevented from retreating into the bulb , by friction ; but , when a moving force is supplied by means of a change of temperature , the motion of the mercury takes place in that direction in which it is least opposed , or most aided , by its capillary action .
As the result obtained is due to the difference between two forces , neither of which is very great , the construction of such an instrument requires care ; and the author will now state what appear to be the chief points which demand attention , as derived from his own experience , and that of those who have interested themselves in the construction of the tubes ; although this experience is necessarily very limited .
1st .
The tubes should be quite clean and free from moisture .
2nd .
They should be in one straight line , and should expand symmetrically into the bulb .
3rd .
It seems the best arrangement , to have the narrow tube of flat bore , not too flat ; its greatest width being about equal to the diameter of the wide bore , which should be cylindrical , and neither conical nor flat .
4th .
The tubes should be well deprived of air before being sealed .
The instrument may be thus graduated .
If , when held vertically , the smaller tube being below , the mercury at the ordinary temperature should fill the lower tube , the bulb and part of the upper tube , the instrument may be pointed off in the same manner as an ordinary thermometer .
But , if the mercury under these circumstances be not enough to fill the bulb , the best plan is perhaps to lay the instrument horizontally in a vessel of water , side by side with a standard thermometer , and , keeping the extremity of the mercury in the one tube at a constant point , to mark off its extremity in the other tube at two or more different temperatures , as shown by the standard thermometer .
The length of this tube corresponding to a degree may be then found in the usual way .
The same process may be followed with the other tube .
Or , take two points in the first tube-say A and B , the distance between them being , say 50 ? .
Set the mercury at the point A , and mark off its other extremity in the second tube .
Set it now at the point B , and mark its extremity in the second tube .
The distance between these two points in the second tube will be the length corresponding to 50 ? .
Graduate the tubes to within a short distance of the bulb , and the best plan is perhaps to number the degrees from one extremity of the instrument , beginning 0 ... 10 ... 20 , &amp;c. , on to the mark on that side nearest the bulb .
Suppose this mark is numbered 100 ?
; then number the mark nearest the bulb on the other side also 100 ?
, and go on upwards numbering 110 ?
, 120 ?
, 130 ?
, &amp;c. , until reaching the other extremity of the instrument .
In the next place ascertain the temperature of the mercury when it fills the bulb and reaches only to the nearest mark on both sides .
Let this be C ? .
In taking an observation , note the numbers at both extremities of the mercury , and deduct the less from the greater .
To the positive remainder add the constant C with its proper sian , and the sum will give the true temperature .

