IV .
" On the Nature of the Light emitted by heated Tourmaline .
" By BALFOUR STEWART , Esq. , M.A. Comnmuniicated by J. P. GASSIOT , Esq. Received May 22 , 1860 .
Some months ago I had the honour of submitting to the Royal Society a paper on the light radiated by heated bodies , in which it was endeavoured to explain the facts recorded by an extension of the theory of exchanges .
Having mentioned the difficulty which I had in maintaining the various transparent substances at a nearly steady red heat for a sufficient length of time in experiments demanding a dark background , Professor Stokes suggested an apparatus by meanis of which this difficulty might be overcome ; and it is owing to his kindness in doing so that I have been enabled to lay these results before the Society .
The apparatus consists of a thick , spherical , cast-iron bomb , about 5 inches in external and 3 inches in internal diameter the thickness of the shell being therefore 1 inch .
It has a cover removeable at pleasure .
There is a small stand in the inside , upon which the substance under examination is placed , and when so placed it is precisely at the centre of the bomb .
Two small round holes , opposite to one another , viz. at the two extremities of a diameter , are bored in the substance of the shell .
If , therefore , the substance placed upon the stand be transparent , and have parallel surfaces , by placing these surfaces so as to front the holes , we are enabled to see through the substance , and consequently through the bomb .
Let the bomb with the substance on the stand be heated to a good red heat , and then withdrawn from the fire and allowed to cool .
It is evident that the cooling of the substance on the stand will proceed very slowly , as it is almost completely surrounded with a red-hot enclosure .
It is also evident that , by placing the bomb in a dark room , we may view the transparent suibstance against a dark background .
By this method of experimenting , therefore , the difficulty above alluded to is overcome .
Before describing the experiment performed on tourmaline , it may be well to state what result the theory of exchanges wouLld lead us to exp)ect when this miineral is heated , and we shall l)erceive at the same time the importanice of the experiment with tourmaline as a test of the theory .
When a suitable piece of tourmaline , with its faces cut parallel to the axis , is used to transmit ordinary light , the light which it transmits is nearly completely polarized , the plane of polarization depending on the position of the axis .
The reason of this is , that if we resolve the incident light into two portionls , one of which consists of light polarized in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the crystal , and the other of light polarized in a plane parallel to the same axis , nearly all the latter is absorbed , while a niotable proportion of the for mer is allowed to pass .
Suppose now that such a piece of tourmaline is placed in a red-hot enclosure ; the theory of exchanges , when fully carried out , demrands that the light transmitted by the tourmaline , say in a direction perpelndicular to its surface , _plus the light radiated by the tourmaline in that direction , plus the small quantity of light reflected by the surface of the touirmaline in that direction , shall together equal in quantity and quality that which would have proceeded in the same direction from the wall of the enclosure alone , supposing the tourmaline to have been removed .
Let us neglect the small quanitity of light which is reflected from the surface of the tourmaline , and , Istanding in fronit of it , analyse with our polariscope the light which proceeds from it .
This light consists of two portions , the transmitted and the radiated , both of which together ought to be equal .
in quality and intensity to that which would reach our polariscope from the enclosure alone were the tourmaline taken away .
But the light which would fall on oiur polariscope from the enclosure alone would not be polarized ; hence the whole body of light which falls upon it from the tourmaline , and which is similar in quality to the former , ought not to be polarized .
Now part of this light , or that which is transmitted by the tourmaline , is polarized ; hence it follows , in order that the whole be without polarization , that the light which is radiated should be partially polarized in a direction at right angles to that which is transmitted .
Another way of stating this conclusionl is this .
The light which the tourmaliuie radiates is equal to that which it absorbs , and this equality holds separately for liglt .
polarized ina plane parallel to the axis of ' the c !
' , I ( I ystal , aiidl for light p)olarw('zlc in a plalne perpendic-ular to the sallmec The experiment was made with a piece of brown tourmaline having a few opake streaks , procured from Mr. Darker of Lambeth .
It was placed in a graphite frame between two circular holes made as above described in opposite sides of the bomb , the diameter of the holes being about -`oths of an inch .
On looking in at one of these holes you could thus see through the tourmaline and the opposite hole , or , in other words , see quite through the bomb .
An arrangement was also made by which part of the tourmaline might be viewed with the graphite behind it .
The apparatus thus prepared was heated to a red or yellow heat in the fire , placed on a brick in a dark room , and the tourmaline viewed by a polariscope which Mr. Gassiot kindly lent me .
The following was the appearance of the experiment : Without the polariscope the transparent parts of the tourmaline were slightly less radiant than the field around them .
When the polariscope was used , the light from the transparent portions of the tourmaline was found to vary in intensity as the instrument was turned round .
No change of intensity could be observed in the light radiated by the opake streaks of the tourmaline , or by the graphite .
The light from the transparent portions was therefore partially polarized .
The polariscope was then brought to its darkest position , and a light from behind allowed to pass through the tourmaline .
The light was distinctly visible in this position , but by turning round the polariscope about 90 ?
it became eclipsed .
The mean of four sets of experiments made the difference between the position of darkness for the two cases 88 ? .
It appears , therefore , that the light radiated by the tourmaline was partially polarized in a plane at right angles to that which was transmitted by it .
It was also ascertained that the light from the tourmaline which had the graphite behind it gave no trace of polarization .

