XIV .
" On the Magnetic Disturbance which took place on the 14th of December 1862 .
" By BALFOUR STEWART , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 19 , 1863 .
On the 14th of December 1862 , a magnetic disturbance occurred about 6 o'clock in the afternoon , and was registered by means of the Kew magnetographs .
As usual it was accompanied by an auroral display and by earth-currents , and the latter phenomena were observed at Greenwich by means of a system of telegraphic wires which had recently come into the possession of the Astronomer Royal .
By the kindness of Mr. Airy , the Kew Observatory has been favoured with a copy of the curves which represent the earth-currents collected at Greenwich during the progress of this disturbance ; and a comparison of these with the Kew magnetograph curves will form the subject of the following paper .
It will , however , first be necessary to state the arrangement adopted at Greenwich .
There are two wires proceeding from the Observatory , one ending near Croydon and the other near Dartford ( nearly at right angles ) ; and these are well insulated throughout their entire length , and have good earth-connexions at their extremities .
From these , by means of galvanometers , the intensity of earthcurrents is recorded for two very favourable directions ; and from these again the intensity of those currents which flow in the magnetic meridian , and in a direction perpendicular to it , may be very easily deduced .
The standard for direction is the current which flows through the wire of a battery from the zinc pole , and which is called the zinc-current .
With this explanation the earth-current diagrams appended to this paper will be quite intelligible ; and with regard to the magnetic curves , it is only needful to remark that increasing ordinates denote decreasing declination and decreasing horizontal force , and that the normal lines , which have been furnished through the kindness of General Sabine , denote the position which the curves would have occupied had no disturbance supervened .
But before proceeding to compare together the two sets of curves , it will be necessary to advert to a peculiarity of disturbances which enters as an essential element into all such discussions .
It has been found by General Sabine that if the disturbances of declination be divided into two categories , easterly and westerly , these obey very different laws of daily variation , and also that this difference is not of the same description for all stations ; so that we are compelled to view a magnetic disturbance as the resultant effect of two disturbances of different character , superimposed upon one another .
General Sabine has likewise stated his opinion that this duality of action may perhaps be due to the disturbing force entering the earth at two or more points , one denoting magnetism of a more permanent kind , and the other magnetism of an induced description .
A study of the Kew disturbance-curves tends to give confirmation to such an idea ; for in these it is seldom found that the whole body of force which produces a disturbance is one which preserves the same type throughout and only varies in intensity .
Even if we suppose that this type will vary with the hour of the day , we shall find , if we take disturbances which last for several days , that the type of force at a given hour of the first day is in very many cases different from that during the same hour of the second .
When , however , we confine our attention to very abrupt changes of force , we find that the disturbance-type which these display retains more of the same character throughout a disturbance .
In order to explain this , we may perhaps suppose that there are two sets of magnetic particles in the earth-one set being of the nature of soft iron , and the other similar to hardened steel .
Now only the first of these would be acted on by any very sudden change in the disturbing force , since it would require time in order to influence the second set .
We may thus perhaps account for the fact that any very sudden change is of one type , since it only influences one set of particles .
Let us now consider what will take place if a disturbance of the same primary nature continues for any length of time .
IIere the hard-iron particles will also be influenced to an extent compounded of the time and of the average value of the disturbing force during that time .
The magnetic needle , therefore , will now be acted on by the joint influence of these two sets of par .
ticles , whereas at the beginning of the disturbance it was only acted on by one of them , namely , the soft-iron ones .
The type of force will therefore have changed if the hard-iron particles are differently distributed in our globe from the soft-iron ones ; and if , instead of two , there are many sets of particles , we shall have a very complicated effect .
Now this duality of disturbing forces must be considered when we attempt to ascertain the connexion between such forces and earthcurrents , since we are not entitled to suppose that one of these two forces is related to earth-currents in precisely the same manner as the other .
A small soft-iron force may be comparable to a large hard-iron one as far as an earth-current is concerned ; or the reverse may be the case .
When , however , there is a very rapid change of disturbing force , since this affects the earth through only one set of particles , we shall by its means be better able to trace the bond of connexion between a single type of magnetic force and the corresponding earth-current .
Rapid changes of force are therefore of peculiar value in such an investigation .
Bearing this in mind , let us endeavour to connect together the phenomena of earth-currents and magnetic disturbances by two successive hypotheses , one of which , it would seem , must represent the truth unless there be some new link of connexion between magnetism and electricity with which we are unacquainted .
The first hypothesis is that in which earth-currents are supposed to give rise to magnetic disturbances according to the laws by which a current acts upon a magnet .
This may be called the theory of direct action .
By the second hypothesis , earth-currents are supposed to be induced , or secondary currents generated in the crust of the earth by those small but rapid changes in terrestrial magnetism which consti .
tute disturbances .
This may be called the theory of induced action .
Now , first , on the theory of direct action .
Zinc-currents going to the south should correspond with magnetic disturbances decreasing the declination ; and zinc-currents going to the east should cIorrespond with an increase of horizontal force ; but we find by the diagrams that while on this hypothesis the disturbance of the horizontal-force needle will be tolerably well accounted for by the east and west cur .
rents , the same correspondence does not hold between the north and south currents and the declination-disturbance .
But I do not think that this circumstance , rightly viewed , tells either in favour of or against the hypothesis .
A glance at the earth-current curves will show that the ordinates of the one bear generally a fixed proportion to those of the other , showing us that the total current has flowed backwards and forwards along one line* ; and though it is equally apparent , by a glance at the magnetic curves , that the same type of force has not been preserved throughout the disturbance , yet the explanation of the unity of type in the earth-currents may be that these are twisted into a line of motion , owing to the disposition of the conducting strata of the earth 's surface , just as a current can only move backwards or forwards along an insulated wire .
Indeed a little reflection will show us that earth-currents are not local phenomena ; so that if we endeavour to estimate quantitatively their influence on the magnet according to the hypothesis of direct action , we must first extend our field of observation , and obtain their value in other countries besides our own .
But to return to our comparison of curves .
We see that for the greater part of the disturbance both the horizontal force and the declination were very much above their normal lines , while on the other hand the currents were frequently crossing their zero lines , and that both currents were simultaneously and for a long portion of their time very near zero , although during this time the magnetic disturbance was considerable .
Next , with respect to a very abrupt disturbance which commenced about 8h 50m , the corresponding earth-current curves are exceedingly powerful , alternately passing and repassing the zero line to nearly the same distance on both sides , while the absolute disturbance of the horizontal force , and probably of the declination , was not very great .
We have thus , in the first place , a very sluggish action of earthcurrents , while the magnetic disturbance was considerable , and in the next place a very violent action of the former when the absolute disturbing force was by no means excessive ; and we may add that at 9h 50m both earth-currents were near zero , while both elements of the earth 's magnetism were much disturbed .
For all these reasons this comparison of the curves is unfavourable to the hypothesis of direct action .
Let us now consider the other hypothesis , or that of induced action , and we shall find the following points in its favour .
1st .
That in this disturbance , for at least one hour , both elements of the earth 's magnetic force remained at a considerable distance from their normals , and that during this time the earth-currents observed were exceedingly small .
Now , on the hypothesis of induced action , the earth-current effect depends not on the absolute value of the disturbing force , but on its rate of change ; and if during this period we examine the horizontal-force curve , we shall find the abruptness of change not so great as in those cases where greater earth-currents were produced , while in the declination-curve the abruptness of change during this period is exceedingly small .
2nd .
A reference to the diagrams will show us that in general the most abrupt magnetic disturbances are those which are accompanied by the greatest earth-currents , and that in particular a very abrupt disturbance , which took place about 8h 501 , was accompanied by very strong earth-currents , alternately positive and negative , those of the one name being nearly as powerful as those of the other , while on the other hand the corresponding magnetic disturbances were on an average decidedly on one side of the normal lines .
On the other hand , the following fact seems at first to tell against the theory of induction .
An inspection of the curves will show that we have currents remaining on one .
side of the zero-line for some length of time , during which the magnetic disturbances have nevertheless changed in both directions .
When , however , we reflect on this circumstance , we are led to see that since we have two sets of disturbances taking place simultaneously , so we must also have two sets of earth-currents .
Now one of these disturbances , which we may perhaps call the soft-iron one , reproduces those small and rapid changes which take place in the primary force , while on the other hand the hard-iron disturbance averages these small changes and presents us with a disturbance-wave of long period .
Precisely , then , as in the magnetic curves we have waves of short period superimposed upon waves of long period , so will it be in the earth-current curves .
Those currents due to the soft-iron disturbances will be superimposed upon those due to the hard-iron ones , with this difference , that we are not entitled to assume that the proportion in intensity between the two simultaneous earth-currents must be precisely that which exists between the rates of change of the two corresponding simultaneous disturbances .
It will be apparent that this feature of duality ought also to be presented by the aurora ; and here it is well known that we have at least two phenomena , one of a more fitful and the other of a more permanent character , namely , the streamers and the auroral arch .
We may suppose the first of these phenomena to correspond to the soft-iron , and the second to the hardiron disturbances .
Indeed it is questionable whether the different 1863 .
] 667 varieties of aurore are confined to these two ; for General Sabine has informed me that he himself , along with the late Sir Edward Parry , observed at Lerwick in the Shetland Isles in 1818 , at the same instant , two auroral arches crossing one another at an angle .
But , be this as it may , when we reflect that there are many kinds of particles in our earth , some of which may be affected more rapidly than others by a primary magnetic force , we shall cease to wonder that the phenomena presented are of a complicated description .
All these considerations have induced me to think that it is lost labour to attempt a quantitative comparison when our observation of the magnetic disturbances and their corresponding earth-currents is confined to one locality ; and it will be seen from this paper , that while endeavouring to uphold the hypothesis of induced action , I have done so by a comparison of a general and qualitative rather than by one of a quantitative nature .

