I. " Description of any Instrumeint conmbininog in onie a Maxirmuiim and Mlinirnum iMler curial Therrnometer , invenlted by Mr. JAMES I{rcIcs .
" By BALFOUlt STEWART , Esq. Communicated by J. P. GASSIOT , Esq. Received Feb. 7 , 1860 .
Abouit a fortn-ight sinee , Mr. Jarnes Hicks , the initelligent foremaun of Mr. L. P. Casella , Optician , called at KeI Observatory with any instrumenit of the above description , for the purpose of having it compared with the ordiniary maximum and minimum thermometers .
This comparisoln provinvery satisfiattory , and the prinaciple of the instrument comnmendirno , itself to Dr. Robinson , Mr. Gassiot , Professor Waller , and several other scienitific men who exainined it , Mr. Gassiot requested me to write a short description of it , whi.li he thouight might be of interest to the Royal Society .
For manly particulars of this description , I am inidebted to Mr. Casella and Mr. Iicks , who furnished me with details regardiuig the conistruction of the instrument .
Its chief advan-tage conisists in its fuLrniishing us with a mercurial minimum thermometer , no serviceable instrument of this description having hiitherto been made .
At the same time it is also capable of being used as a mercurial maxirnum thermometer .
The principle of the instrumenit is brieflv as follows It has a cylinidrical bulb learly 3iniches loIng and half anl inch in diameter , filled with mercury .
This gives a bore nearly -t-th of an inchl wide , and a scale on which 1 ?
Fahrl .
corresponds to about ; -1lth of an inch .
Whenl the graduation has reached l5V ?
Fahr. or so , both the tuibe and the scale are made to assumne a position at ri ht angles to that which they occupied previously , so that the first portion of the thermometer being vertical , the second will be horizonhtal .
The numbers on the horizontal scale are not , however , in conttim.uuation of those on the vertical ; for in the instrument from which this account is taken , while 150 ?
is the highest division on the vertical scale , the first on the horizontal is lIO , the next O0 , the:3rd I0 ?
, and so on .
TrUe reason of this method of graduation will immediately appear .
Above the merculry there is a small quantity of spirits of wine , which extends some distance into the horizontal tube .
The quantity of this , and the graduation , correspond in such a manner , that the extreme end of the spirit column denotes the same degree of temperature as the mercury .
The remainder of the horizonital tube is filled with air .
There are two moveable indices in the spirit column , one in the vertical tube , the other in the horizontal , each about half an inch long- .
The former , B , consists of a fine steel magnet enclosed in glass .
This forms the body of the index .
At either extremity there is a head of black glass , similar to that which occurs in the index of an ordinary minimum thermometer .
A fine hair is tied round the neck of this index , between the body and the upper head ; and it is made to hang dowri by the side , so that by its elastic pressure against the tube , the index may be kept in its place , notwithstanding its verticality .
The index in the horizontal tube A , is in all respects similar to that of an ordinary miniimum thermorrieter .
Let us now suppose the instrument fixed in its position , the first part of the stem being vertical .
o In order to adjust it , we must first bring the vertical index I_ ___ I____ I into contact with the upper extremity of the mercurial column .
To do this , let us take two small l blUt strong , horseshoe magnets , I0 and lay the one above the other , so that the poles of the one shall V overlap to a small extent the corresponding poles of the other .
Bring the magnets up to the 7L index in such a manner , that , 1 while the poles of the one bear against the side of the glass I tube , the overlapping poles shall lie over the tube so as to be in front of the index : the index will now follow the motion of the magnets , and it may thus be brought down to the surface of the mercury .
In order to bring the horizontal index to the extremiiity of the spirit column , all that is necessary is to inclinie the horizontal tul)e a little downwards by pressing on the enid .
The indices being now set and the instrument in adjustment , let us suppose the temperature to rise ; the mercurial column will push the vertical index up , but this index will remain in its place when the mercury again falls , and will therefore denote the maximum temperature reached .
On the o , there hanid , let us suppose the temperature to fall .
The mercury in falling is followed by the spirit column propelled by the air bebind it .
The spirit column , again , will , on its edge coming in contact with the end of the horizontal index , draw the index with it into a position , where it will remain when the merculry again rises .
Thnis index will therefore register the extreme ininimum point which the spirit collumn has reached ; but by the principle of graduation , this will correspond with the minimum point reached by the mercurial columln .
Let us now suppose that a small portion of the spirit column has become separated , and lodged itself in the extremity of the tube .
The principle of graduation will immediately enable us to discover this , by a want of correspondence being produced in the readings of the mercurial and of the spirit column .
If , for instance , before the separation , the mercury read 50 ?
, and the horizontal extremity of the spirit column also 500 , it is clear that , after the abstraction of spirits has taken place , the horizontal column will read lower .
WVe have thus a check upon this possible source of error , which we have not in the ordinary minimum thermometer .
Indeed , it is to all intents a mercurial minimum thermometer that we are now describing , the spirits serving merely as a vehicle for the indices .
It will be remarked , that were both columns capable of acting in a horizontal position , there would be no niecessity for the bend , and the inistrument would be more portable ; but in this position it is found that there is darnger of the spirits becoming mixed with the mercury , and thus interfering with the action of the instrument .
Should this ever be brought about by travelling , or any other cause , a smart jerk or two of the instrument will join the separated columns and put all right .
The instrument is thus constructed:-The vertical tube , including the bulb , is first made and filled with mercury to the proper height , and the magnetic index is introduced ; then the horizontal tube is joined , and the spirits of wine and the horizontal index are introduced .
The bulb is then placed in a freezing mixtuire , in order that the mercury may retreat as far as possible , followed by the spirits of wine .
The tube is then sealed , care being taken that the bore shall end in a small rounded chamber ; for if pointed , some of the spirits would be apt to lodge there , whence it would be difficult to r emove it .
The object of cooling the bulb before sealing off , is that we may have as much air in the tube as possible ; for its pressure , as already mentionled , enables the spirits to follow the mercury where the latter falls .
To graduate the instrument , set it with the mercurial stem horizoltal in melting ice , then point off the extremity of the mercurial , and also of the spirit column as corresponding to 320 Fahr. Perform a similar operation in water at 42 ?
, 520 , 620 , &amp;c. , and also in freezing mixtures down to zero , or lower if necessary .
In conclusion , if used as a wet-bulb thermometer , this instrument will give us the maximum and minimum temperatures of evaporation obtained under precisely the same circumstances .

