I. " Description of an Apparatus for the Verification of Sextants designed and constructed by Mr. T. Cooke , and recently erected at the Kew Observatory .
" By BALFOUR STEWART , LL. D. , Superintendent of the Kew Observatory .
Received May 9 , 1867 .
In order to test the accuracy of graduation of a sextant , it is necessary to have a series of well-defined objects , the angular distances between which must be accurately known .
The sextant under trial is made to measure these angular distances ; and the results thus obtained , when compared with the correct values of these distances ( supposed to be otherwise determined ) , will give at once the error of the instrument .
Now with regard to this series of objects , the following conditions are necessary in order that they may be convenient for the purpose of testing sextants:a .
It is necessary that the objects should be distinctly seen and well defined .
Luminous objects would be preferable , if these could be obtained .
Luminous points would answer well .
f3 .
It is necessary that they should be at a very great , or virtually infinite distance from the sextant , so that two lines proceeding from any point in the objects , the one to the index-glass , and the other to the horizon-glass , should be virtually parallel to each other .
y. It is necessary that these objects should be at such angular distances from one another , that by means of them it may be possible to test , say every 15 ?
of a sextant 's arc .
I. It is necessary that these objects should be always visible , or at least that they should be rendered visible easily , and without loss of time .
A series of fixed stars , at suitable intervals from one another , might be made to fulfil the first three of these conditions ; but in this uncertain climate it would be inconvenient to adopt any mode of verification depending for its success upon the visibility of the sun or stars ; in fine we must have a source of light which can always be commanded .
A plan proposed by Mr. T. Cooke fulfils this requirement , and as it has now been carried out with apparent success , a short description of it may perhaps be acceptable to the Royal Society .
His arrangement is of the following nature : F , G denote two collimators , F having a single vertical line , and Ga couple of cross lines , as shown in the figure .
2 [ June 20 , The collimator F is at the principal focus of the lens a , and the collimator G at that of the lens b. Elevation of Collimators , showing wires viewed from outside the circle .
Plan of Cooke 's Apparatus for Verifying Sextants at the Kew Observatory .
A. Double coliimators .
D. ( Candies for illuminating wires .
B. Table for holding sextants .
E. Slate to which collimators are bolted .
C. Sextant .
F &amp; G. Wires in collimators .
Furthermore , the lenses are so adjusted that the two lines , the one of which is that proceeding from the centre of the collimator F to the centre of the lens a , and the other that proceeding from the centre of the collimator G to the centre of the lens b , shall be parallel to one another .
This condition is fulfilled in the following manner:-A telescope having an object-glass sufficiently large to embrace at once the two collimators a and b , is focused by means of a star for an object infinitely distant .
It is then used as an instrument wherewith to view these collimators previously illuminated ; if they appear in focus , it follows that they are to be optically regarded as infinitely distant bodies , and thus that they are accurately at the principal foci of their respective lenses .
In the next place , things are so adjusted that the vertical collimator shall appear to bisect the cross-wire collimator in the field of view of B23 1867 .
] the telescope .
This adjustment is one which , from the form of the two collimators ( a straight line and two cross lines ) , can be made with great exactness , and when accomplished , it follows that the two collimators , F and G , are to be optically regarded as two infinitely distant bodies , both being in the same direction .
Each of the two collimators has a moveable cover , so that , if desirable , the one can be viewed without the other .
The collimator lines are illuminated in the following manner:-T.hese lines are formed of fine glass threads , and the light of candles symmetrically disposed is allowed to fall upon these threads .
By this arrangewent the threads are rendered luminous on both their sides at the same time ; there is therefore no perceptible parallax , such as would follow from the one side of the thread being lit up at one time , and the other at another time .
It is now necessary to describe the method of fixing the collimators .
A brick erection was made in the basement hall of the Observatory , having the shape of a circular are .
To the flat top of this erection three pieces of slate , all in one horizontal plane , and having their upper surfaces curved , were attached by cement ; finally , a slate slab , E ( shown in the figure ) , was laid so as to rest simultaneously on these three curved surfaces .
The collimators , being intended to rest on this slate slab , had their lower surfaces made quite flat , and were firmly bolted by means of screws to the slab .
The angular distances between the collimators are ( roundly speaking ) as follows : From 1 to 2 ... ... ... .
30 ? ?
1 , , 3 ... ... ... ... 60 , 1 , 4 ... ... ... ... 105 ?
, , , 5 ... ... ... . .
120 ?
A horizontal table , B , capable of motion , either vertically or in azimuth , and also capable of being rigidly fixed in any required position , is placed in the centre of the circle of which the boundary line of the slate slab constitutes the circumference .
In order to determine accurately the angular distance between the various collimators , a theodolite is placed on the table B , so that when levelled its telescope , as it sweeps round in azimuth , may be able to bring into the middle of its field of view the various collimators .
No care need be taken that the centre of the theodolite is precisely in the centre of the circle , because the collimators being virtually at an infinite distance , it follows that the angular distance between any two of them does not depend on the exact centering of the theodolite .
Now , if any theodolite be taken , and if a number of sets of observations of the angular distances between the collimators be made , each set starting from a fresh point in the azimuth circle of the theodolite , it 4 [ June 20 , is evident that by this means we shall eliminate any error of graduation of the theodolite .
A complete set of determinations of these angular distances ought , therefore , to refer to at least three starting-points in the horizontal circle of the theodolite , these being , say 120 ?
, apart from each other .
The following complete sets have been made at various dates by Mr. G. Whipple : Measurements of the Angles between the Collimators of the Apparatus for the Verification of Sextants .
The measurements were made with a 6-in .
Theodolite , divided to 30 " .
TABLE I. Angles Dates of Observation .
between collimators .
Nov. 23 , i866 .
Nov. 26 , i866 .
Feb. 27 , 1867 .
May 2 , 1867 .
Means .
0o0 II 01 id 0I II 01 II Nos. I and 2 ... 29 59 444 29 59 35'0 29 59 45'0 29 59 26-7 29 59 37'8 , , I , , 3 ... 59 59 31'7 59 59 41'7 59 59 46'7 59 59 29'3 59 59 37'3 , , , 4 ... 105 o i17 I05 o I'7 104 59 41I7 104 59 46'7 104 59 52'9 , , , , 5. .
izo o0 I7 120 0 1I'7 119 59 56'7 I19 59 53'3 I20 0 3-3 TABLE II .
Differences from Means .
+o 6-6 -o 2'8 +0 72 -0 I II -o 5'6 +o 4'4 +0 9'4 -o 8-o +o 8'8 +o 8-8 -o II12 -0 6-2 +0 8'4 +0 8'4 -o 6'6 -o io'o TABLE III .
Angles between Collimators .
0I Ii Nos. 4 and 5 ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 0o4 , , I , , 2 ... ... ... ... ... ... 29 59 378 3 , , 4 ... ... ... ... ... ... 4o 5-6 , , I , , 3 ... ... ... ... ... . .
59 59 3I'7 , ,2 , , 4 ... ... ... ... 75 o 15'1 2 , , 5 ... ... ... ... ... ... 9 ?
o 25-5 I , , 4 ... ... ... ... ... ... 104 59 52'9 , I , 5 ... ... ... ... ... .
I20 0 3'3 It will be seen from Table II .
that the observational differences from the means are extremely small , and capable of being accounted for by the uncertainty of reading a theodolite graduated to 30 " .
We may therefore suppose the positions of the collimators to have remained the same throughout the period embraced by our observations .
In conclusion , it may be desirable to describe in a few words the method by which a sextant may be verified by means of this apparatus .
Let us suppose the collimators to be accurately and quite immovably fixed , and the angular distances between them to be accurately determined .
Also let the distance between the two lenses a and b of any collimator be such that the collimator F may be seen through a at the horizon-glass , and the collimator G through b at the index-glass of an ordinary sextant placed on the table B. In order to test the index-error of a sextant , the vertical line of a collimator is made to bisect the cross lines belonging to the same collimator in the field of view of the telescope of this sextant .
If the sextant is accurate , it should read zero , since these two lines are infinitelv distant and in the same direction .
The sextant is next placed with its horizon-glass receiving the rays from the vertical line collimator F , ( G , being covered ) , and its indexglass receiving the rays from the cross line collimator G , , and the telescope arm is moved until F , bisects Gin the field of view ; if the instrument is correct , the reading ought to be ( by Table III .
) 15 ?
0 ' 10"'4 .
By pursuing this method it is evident from Table III .
that the error of graduation of the sextant may be determined at every 15 ?
of its arc .
In conclusion , it ought to be mentioned that perhaps no artifical light easily obtainable is sufficiently powerful to allow of the darkest glasses of a sextant being examined , and that for this purpose we may ultimately have to resort to other means .

