III .
" On the Great Magnetic Disturbance of August 28 to September 7 , 1859 , as recorded by Photography at the Kew Observatory .
" By BALFOUR STEWART , Esq. , A.M. Communicated by General SABINE , R.A. , Treas .
, V.P.R.S. Received June 28 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) During the latter part of August , and the beginning of September , 1859 , auroral displays of almost unprecedented magnificence were observed very widely throughout our globe , accompanied ( as is invariably the case ) with excessive disturbances of the magnetic needle .
The interest attached to these appearances is , if possible , enhanced by the fact , that at the time of their occurrence a large spot might have been seen on the disc of our luminary , a celestial phenomenon which we have grounds for supposing to be intimately connected with auroral exhibitions and magnetic storms .
The auroral displays just mentioned were very attentively observed throughout Europe , America , and Australia .
In many places these were of the most gorgeous character , and other places were visited by this meteor where its appearance was an event of very rare occurrence .
Even from as low a latitude as Cuba we have a description of it by the Director of the Havannah Observatory , accompanied with the remark that only four previous displays had been recorded in the traditions of the island .
In not a few instances telegraphic communication was interrupted owing to the current produced in the wires ; and in some cases this proved so powerful that it was used instead of the ordinary current , the batteries being cut off and the wires connected with the earth .
The descriptions of this meteor , given by various observers , have been collected together by Professor Loomis , and published in a series of papers communicated by him to the American Journal of Science and Arts .
From all these accounts there appears to have been two great displays , each commencing at nearly the same absolute time throughout the globe ; the first on the evening of the 28th of August , and the second on the early morning of the 2nd of September , Greenwich time .
Magnetic disturbances of unusual violence and very wide extent were observed simultaneously with these displays .
These were recorded more or less frequently at the different Observatories ; but at Kew there is the advantage of a set of self-recording magnetographs , which are in constant operation , and by means of which the state of the elements of the earth 's magnetic force may be known at any moment .
The author then refers to curves , which accompany his paper , and shows that the first disturbance commenced about 10on the evening of August 28th , affecting all the elements simultaneously .
At about 7{P.M .
, 29th August , the violence of this disturbance had somewhat abated , and things remained nearly in this state until September 2nd , 5 A.M. , about which time another very abrupt disturbance simultaneously affected all the elements , and continued with great violence until about 4 P.M. of the same day , when it somewhat abated .
The elements , nevertheless , remained in a state of considerable disturbance until September 5th , and only attained their normal positions on September 7th .
It thus appears that we have two distinct well-marked disturbances , both commencing abruptly and ending gradually , the first of which began on the evening of August 28th , and the second on the early morning of Septem- : ber 2nd .
These two great disturbances correspond , therefore , in point of time , to the two great auroral displays already alluded to .
The average effect of both of these disturbances was to increase the declination , and to diminish the horizontal and vertical components of the earth 's magnetic force .
The author then alludes to a disturbance which took place about 15 minutes past 11 o'clock on the forenoon of September 1st , similar in its mode of action to the two great disturbances already mentioned , but not equalling them in extent or in duration .
This disturbance affected the magnetograph simultaneously with the breaking out , near a spot on the sun 's disc , of a bright star , which was fortunately observed both by Mr. Carrington and Mr. Hodgson , independently .
The study of the curves furnished by the magnetograph during this great storm , in the author 's opinion seems to throw light upon the connexion which subsists between magnetic disturbances , earthcurrents , and auroral displays .
These curves show that at the commencement of the disturbance , the horizontal and vertical components of the earth 's force remained depressed below their normal values for at least seven hours .
The curves for this portion of time have also a peculiar serrated appearance , as if on the great wave of disturbance whose period was seven hours , there were superimposed smaller waves whose period might be perhaps only a few minutes , or even less .
Now Mr. C. V. Walker , in a paper communicated to the Royal Society ( January 31st , 1861 ) , shows that the earth-currents which accompany auroras are of very short period ( say a few minutes ) , and the auroras themselves also appear to be of a very fitful nature .
We cannot , therefore , well imagine how any combination of auroras and earth-currents could cause the period of seven hours , which the magnetic curves exhibit ; while at the same time we cannot fail to associate the rapidly reversed earth-currents with those serrated appearances which the curves present .
The author suggests the following explanation of these phenomena .
The earth itself may be likened to the soft iron core of a Ruhmkorff 's machine , and the lower strata of the atmosphere to an insulating material interposed between the earth and the upper strata of the atmosphere , which , being very rare , become conducting , and form as it were the secondary coil of this arrangement .
Now suppose a primary current , probably in our luminary , to influence the earth , and suppose its general direction to remain the same for at least seven hours .
This current would act on the magnetic matter of the earth in the same manner during these seven hours ; and would , therefore , account for the magnetic wave of seven hours ' duration .
But although this current has been supposed to remain in the same direction for seven hours , yet we may suppose that its intensity , especially if it have an atmospheric origin , is of a fluctuating character .
Now any sudden increase or diminution in the intensity of this current , heightened by the iron core on which it acts , i. e. the earth , will produce secondary currents , 1st .
Along the surface of the earth , which is sufficiently conducting for this purpose .
2ndly .
Along the upper strata of the atmosphere , which are also sufficiently conducting .
These will be the earth-currents and auroras which , according to this hypothesis , are therefore due to the fluctuating nature of this primary current ; while , on the other hand , the magnetic disturbances are due to its absolute intensity .

