The Croonian Lecture .
On some Physiological Researches , respecting the Influence of the Brain on the Action of the Heart , and on the Generation of animal Heat .
By Mr. B. C. Brodie , F.R.S. Read December 20 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 36 .
] It has been observed by Mr. Cruickshank , and the same observations have been made by M. Bichat ( in his Recherches Physiologiques sir la Vie et la Mort ) , that the brain is not directly necessary to the action of the heart ; and that when the functions of the brain are destroyed , the circulation of the blood ceases only in consequence of the suspension of the respiration .
The former of these observations Mr. Brodie had found to be correct ; for if the spinal marrow were divided , though the respiration was thereby immediately stopped , still the heart continued to contract , and to propel forward , for a short time , dark-coloured blood ; and even when the head was entirely removed , if the blood-vessels were secured by ligature , the circulation seemed unaffected by the entire separation .
It appeared , therefore , in conformity to the second observation , to cease solely in consequence of the suspension of respiration ; but Mr. Brodie conceived that this point might admit of direct proof by experiment ; for in that case the heart should continue to act for a greater length of time , if the process of respiration were carried on artificially .
The present lecture comprises the details of his experiments on this subject .
The first experiment was made upon a rabbit , the head of which was removed after the blood-vessels had been tied up ; and the lungs were then inflated artificially once in five seconds , during twenty-five minutes .
The circulation of the blood was found to continue the whole of that time ; but it was observed that no secretion of urine took place .
The second experiment was made upon a middle-sized dog , for the purpose of ascertaining also , whether the animal heat was kept up to its natural standard .
At the end of two hours the pulse continued as high as seventy , but in the next half hour it was found to have declined rapidly , and the artificial respiration was discontinued .
At the end of one hour a thermometer in the rectum had fallen 60 ; at the end of two hours it had fallen 14 ?
in the thorax ; and at the end of the experiment 200 in the thorax .
At the beginning of this experiment the ureters had been tied ; and at the end of the experiment it was found that no urine was collected above the ligature .
The third experiment was made upon a rabbit ; and the artificial respiration was continued one hour and forty minutes .
A thermometer in the cavity of the abdomen fell in the first hour from 100 ?
to 89 ?
; and in the next forty minutes to 850 ; but in the cavity of the thorax it was as low as 82 ? .
Since the blood in these experiments was observed to retain its florid red colour in the arteries , it might be expected , according to the common theory of animal heat , to retain also its proper temperature ; but Mr. Brodie observes , that this must also depend on the fulness and frequency of the pulse , together with the fulness and frequency of inspiration .
It therefore became necessary to attend particularly to these circumstances .
In the fourth experiment , which was also made upon a rabbit , the natural inspirations were imitated as nearly as possible ; and at the end of forty minutes the pulse was found to continue as high as 140 in a minute , but the heat had declined from 990 to 92 ?
0 .
At the end of one hour and twenty-five minutes , a thermometer in the pericardium was 85 ?
, in the abdomen 87 ? .
In the fifth experiment the pulse continued at 140 for upwards of an hour , but the heat in the rectum declined from 1010 to 920 .
In a subsequent experiment two rabbits were chosen , as nearly alike in size and every particular as possible .
Both were killed ; but one was suffered to cool gradually without interruption ; and in the other the circulation was continued by means of artificial respiration .
At the beginning of the experiment the temperature of each was 990 ?
At the end of half an hour that of the former was 99 ?
; the latter 970 Three quarters of an hour ... ... ... ... ... .
98 --95 One hour ... ... ... .
96 --94 One hour and a half. .
94 91 It appeared , therefore , that respiration tended rather to cool than to support the animal heat .
But since it was possible that a small portion of heat might be generated , but counteracted by the contact of cold air , a subsequent experiment was made , in which the large vessels of the heart were tied , so as to prevent any circulation of the blood ; and in this case the heat remained comparatively greater than in the former , as the cooling effect of the air was not diffused to distant parts of the body .
From the whole the author concludes , Ist .
That the influence of the brain is not directly necessary to the action of the heart .
2nd .
That the interruption of the circulation is owing to the stoppage of respiration .
3rd .
That when the influence of the brain is cut off , the secretion of urine ceases , and the production of animal heat is discontinued , even though the blood is preserved of its florid red colour .
4th .
That , on the contrary , the coldness of the air applied is communicated to the blood , and thereby diffused to distant parts of the body .

