XI .
" Note on the Oxidation and Disoxidation effected by the Peroxide of Hydrogen .
" By B. C. BRODIE , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Received September 9 , 1861 .
In a former communication* I laid before the Society a detailed investigation as to the remarkable disoxidation of certain metallic oxides ( of which the decomposition of the oxide of silver may be regarded as typical ) by the peroxide of hydrogen .
I suggested that this decomposition was of a simple and normal chemical character ; that the element oxygen was formed according to a molecular law identical with that according to which compound substances are formed ; and that the mutual decomposition of the two oxides was 'determined by the synthesis of the particles of oxygen in opposite polar conditions , according to the equation Ag , +H2 0 , = Ag , +H2 0+0 , .
After an interval of nearly ten years , this explanation , together with various facts bearing upon the theory of this action , and which were given for the first time in the paper alluded to , have been reproduced as original discoveries by Schonbein , Professor of Chemistry at Baslet .
The reaction does not , however , present itself under this simple form .
The amount of oxygen lost by the oxide of silver is a variable quantity , comprised between the extreme limits of the catalytic action in which the reduction is zero , and the normal chemical action as expressed in the above equation .
The reason for this variation is to be sought in the disturbing influence of the metal formed during the decomposition .
It is my intention shortly to communicate to the Society a prosecution of the above inquiry , in which I investigate the decomposition by the peroxide of hydrogen of certain oxygenated substances contained in solution , where the perturbing causes which affect the decomposition of the solid oxides and conceal the simplicity of the reaction , do not exist .
The methods by which the following results have been obtained will hereafter be given in detail .
I confine myself to a brief resume of the conclusions .
( 1 ) * When an acid solution of permanganic acid is decomposed by peroxide of hydrogen , the decomposition is in an invariable atomic proportion , according to the equation Mn 07 , +5H 0 , =2Mn , 0+ H2 0+502 .
( 2 ) An alkaline solution of ferricyanide of potassium is reduced by the peroxide of barium to ferrocyanide , with the evolution of two atoms of oxygen , thus 2K3 Fe Cy6+2KHO+Ba2 02=2K Fe Cy6+2Ba HO+ 0 , .
( 3 ) An alkaline solution of hypochlorite of barium is reduced by the peroxide of barium , according to the equation Ba C1 0+Ba2 02 + H2 = Ba C1+2Ba I10+0 , .
A similar change takes place , as might be anticipated , with an aqueous solution of chlorine in the acid solution of peroxide of barium , but more slowly .
I have elsewhere shown that the action of iodine is expressed by the equation 2+ Ba2 02=23Ba I+02 .
( 4 ) The decomposition of chromic acid is of special interest .
In this case there are two distinct reactions , the first of which takes place when chromic acid is in excess , according to the equation 2Cr2 03+3H20 2= Cr , 0332 +3 032 ; the second , which occurs when a large excess of peroxide of hydrogen is present , and in which the peroxide of hydrogen loses exactly double the amount of oxygen lost by the chromic acid , so that the final result is expressed by the equation 2Cr2 03 +6 H20 = Cr4 03+ 6 H20 + 0 , .
In the interval between these reactions the ratio of the loss of oxygen from the peroxide to the loss from the chromic acid varies between the limits 1 and 2 according to a definite law , being proportional to the ratio of the masses of the substances employed .
I am able to show , by direct experiment , that the reaction between the extreme limits is the sum of two distinct and simple atomic decompositions .
The alkaline peroxides which produce these peculiar effects of reduction , under other conditions act as powerful oxidizing agents ; thus an acid solution of ferrocyanide of potassium is oxidized by peroxide of hydrogen to ferricyanide .
I-Iydrated protoxide of manganese is oxidized by peroxide of barium to the condition of peroxide of manganese .
A concentrated solution of hydrochloric acid evolves chlorine from peroxide of barium .
This last reaction I have made the subject of a special investigation , with the view of determining the conditions under which the two reactions , 4H Cl+ Ba2 02=2Ba Cl+ 2 H2 0+ C12 , and 21H C1+Ba2 02=2Ba C1+H,02 , respectively take place ; and I find that when a solution of hydrochloric acid is boiled with peroxide of barium , if the solution be concentrated , chlorine , if the solution be dilute , oxygen , exclusively is evolved ; and that for each intermediate degree of dilution chlorine and oxygen together are evolved in a constant ratio .
It is thus seen that those differences in the behaviour of the different classes of peroxides , from which an imaginary distinction has been drawn between the oxygen respectively contained in them as positive or negative , are not fundamental and characteristic differences .
The oxygen in the peroxide of barium is the same as that in the peroxide of manganese , according to the only test of identity which we can apply , for we can produce with it the same effects .
Nor are the peculiarities in the reactions of the oxygen of the alkaline peroxides of such a nature as to need any special hypothesis to account for them ; for in no case are the combining properties of the particles of matter , like their atomic weights , constant for each chemical substance , but they are variable properties , depending on the physical conditions in which the particles are placed , and the chemical substances with which they are associated .

