Further Experiments and Observations on the Action of Poisons on the Animal System .
By B. C. Brodie , Esq. F.R.S. Communicated to the Societyfor the Improvement of Animal Chemistry , and by them to the Royal Society .
Read February 27 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 205 .
] In the description of the author 's former experiments on the same subject , he entered more into the detail of particular occurrences than he now thinks necessary .
He was formerly apprehensive that the operations of the same poison might not be always the same , and was therefore careful to relate all the circumstances .
But he now finds extremely little difference in the action of the same poison , even upon different animals ; and in those of the same species no difference but what may be referred to difference of quantity of poison , or age , and power of the animal .
He consequently does not enter minutely into the particulars of his late experiments , but gives a general account of those which appear to be of most importance , with regard to the inferences that maybe drawn from them .
The greatest part of them relate to the action of mineral poisons ; but since , on the former occasion , his trials of woorara had been left imperfect for want of a sufficient quantity of that poison , he states the results of two experiments made after obtaining a fresh supply , for the purpose of endeavouring to recover animals that had been apparently killed by it .
A young cat was the subject of the first experiment .
In four minutes after the application of woorara to a wound in her side , she appeared to be dead , but the heart continued to act 140 times in a minute .
Mr. Brodie then inflated the lungs , and repeated the artificial respiration forty times in a minute .
At the end of forty minutes the pupils of the eyes were observed to contract by an increase of light upon them ; but in other respects she was motionless and insensible .
At the end of an hour further symptoms of life began to appear , and there was an effort to breathe occasionally .
There were also various involuntary motions .
The efforts to breathe became gradually more frequent , and after two hours had elapsed , the spontaneous efforts were repeated as often as twenty-two times in a minute .
The artificial respiration being then discontinued , she lay as if in a profound sleep for about forty minutes , when she suddenly awoke , and gradually recovered from all the effects of the woorara .
A second experiment , of the same kind , performed on a rabbit , was not so successful ; for though the action of the heart was continued strong and regular for more than three hours by means of artificial respiration , there never was the least appearance of returning sensibility ; and the pulse from that time began to subside , and ultimately ceased altogether .
The mineral poisons here examined by Mr. Brodie , are arsenic , muriate of barytes , emetic tartar , and corrosive sublimate .
When arsenic is taken internally , it is observed that some appearance of inflammation of the stomach is usually found after death ; and the general opinion is , that this inflammation is caused by the local application of the arsenic to the coats of the stomach ; and secondly , that this inflammation is the cause of death .
To these opinions Mr. Brodie objects , that in many cases the appearances of inflammation are too slight to warrant such an opinion ; and in most instances of animals killed by arsenic , death takes place in too short time for it to be considered as the result of inflammation .
The author observes also , that the inflammation does not depend on the local application ; for it has been remarked by Mr. Hunter and Mr. Hume , and Mr. Brodie has confirmed the observation by new experiments , which have satisfied him , that inflammation of the stomach is more violent and more immediate , in consequence of application of arsenic to wounds , than when it is taken into the stomach itself .
The symptoms first produced are paralysis of the hind legs , and other parts of the body ; convulsions , dilatation of the pupils , and general insensibility , indicating disturbance of the functions of the brain .
Secondly .
A feeble slow intermitting pulse , from disturbance of the functions of the heart .
Thirdly .
Pain in the abdomen , sickness , vomiting , &amp;c. from the action of this poison on the stomach and intestines .
From such general affection of such different organs , from the order in which they are affected , and from the analogy with vegetable poisons , which from Mr. Brodie 's former experiments appeared not to act till they had entered the circulation , he infers that arsenic also , in whatever way administered , does not produce its effects even on the stomach till it has been received into the blood .
And although it might be supposed that blood containing arsenic would equally destroy the vitality of every part , there are various circumstances which show that this is not the case ; for even to the instant of death , in consequence of the full effect of arsenic on the brain , heart , and bowels , various secretions continue apparently unimpaired ; and even after death the muscles remain excitable to powerful contractions by means of electricity .
From such trials as Mr. Brodie has made of muriate of barytes , it has appeared to act principally on the brain , but in some degree on the heart also ; for although the heart always continued to act after respiration had ceased , in consequence of the affection of the brain , nevertheless the pulse was feeble and intermittent ; and although artificial respiration was made with the greatest care , in the hope of keeping up the circulation , it could rarely be maintained more than a few minutes .
In some instances , in which the artificial respiration had been pursued with apparent success for a greater length of time , there were some signs of restoration of the functions of the brain , with occasional returns of voluntary respiration ; but though the greatest care had been taken to preserve the temperature also by external means , the pulse notwithstanding continued to diminish in strength and frequency , and ultimately ceased .
It was found , however , that the heart , the intestines , and the muscles , in general , were excitable to contraction by means of electricity , although insensible to the stimulus of blood poisoned by muriate of barytes .
The stomach likewise is affected by this poison with some degree of inflammation , but less so than by arsenic .
And though in some instances it operates as an emetic , the author considers the inflammation to be independent of the local application , and to arise through the medium of the general circulation .
The effects produced by emetic tartar are very similar to those of the preceding poisons ; but it much more frequently occasions vomiting .
The symptoms enumerated are paralysis , drowsiness , and at last complete insensibility .
The pulse becomes feeble , but still the heart continues to act after apparent death ; so that its action may be increased by artificial respiration , but never longer than for a few minutes .
Its principal action is conceived to be upon the brain ; but it appears to act upon the heart also , The stomach sometimes bears marks of inflammation ; but the author has seen no instance of the intestines being inflamed .
The experiments of Mr. Brodie on corrosive sublimate , have led him to conclusions very different from the preceding respecting its mode of action .
When applied to a wounded part , it produces a slough , without any affection of the general system ; and when taken internally , its effects , he thinks , may be best explained by its local action on the stomach alone , unconnected with any absorption of it into the circulation .
When a solution of corrosive sublimate is taken into the stomach , the mucous membrane is found of a dull grey colour , having lost its texture , so as to be easily separated from the muscular coat ; and as this precludes the idea of absorption into the circulation , Mr. Brodie conceives that its deleterious effects depend entirely upon its chemical action on the stomach , and that the brain and heart are thence affected by nervous sympathy .

