361 food is , for some reason or other , generally better adapted to meet the collective requirements of the human organism than an exclusively bread or other vegetable one , the testimony of common experience may be accepted as sufficient evidence .
Whatever may prove to be the exact explanations of the benefits arising from a mixed animal and vegetable diet , it is at any rate pretty clear , that , independently of any difference in the physical , and perhaps even chemical relations of the nitrogenous compounds , they are essentially connected with the amount , the condition , and the distribution of thefat in the animal portions of the food .
Fat is the most concentrated respiratory , and of course fat-storing material also , which our food-stuffs supply .
It cannot be doubted that , independently of the mere supply of constituents , the conditions of concentration , of digestibility , and of assimilability of our different foods must have their share in determining the relative values , for the varying exigences of the system , of substances which , in a more general or more purely chemical sense , may still justly be looked upon as mutually replaceable .
By the aid of chemistry it may be established that , in the admixture of animal food with bread , the relation ( in respiratory and fatforming capacity ) of the non-flesh-forming to the flesh-forming substances will be increased , and , further , that in such a mixed diet the proportion of the non-flesh-forming constitutents , which will be in the concentrated form , so to speak , offat itself , will be considerably greater than in bread alone .
Common experience also testifies to the fact of advantages so derived .
It remains to Physiology to lend her aid to the full explanation of that which Chemistry and common usage have thus determined .
COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED SINCE THE END OF THE SESSION .
I. Note " On the Formation of the Peroxides of the Radicals of the Organic Acids .
" By B. C. BRODIE , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Received July 22 , 1858 .
The researches of Gerhardt showed a close resemblance which exists between the monobasic organic acids and the metallic protoxides .
We have the chloride of acetyl corresponding to the chloride of the metal , and the hydrated and anhydrous acetic acid corresponding to the hydrated and anhydrous oxide .
These investigations have been succeeded by others , which have had their origin in the consistent development of these ideas .
The following discovery extends and completes these analogies .
I have to add a new term to this series , of which hitherto no analogue has existed .
This term is the peroxide of the organic radical , the body which in the series of acetyl corresponds to the peroxide of hydrogen or barium in the series of the metal .
Of these remarkable substances I have prepared two , the peroxides of benzoyl and of acetyl ; but the method by which these are procured is doubtless of extensive application , and we may consider ourselves as in possession of a class of bodies of a new order , the study of which cannot fail greatly to extend our knowledge .
These peroxides are prepared by the action of the anhydrous acid , or the corresponding chloride , upon the peroxide of barium .
It is first necessary to prepare this peroxide in a pure condition .
This is effected by precipitation of the solution of the peroxide of barium in hydrochloric acid by baryta water , and by drying in vacuo the precipitate thus obtained .
The peroxide of barium thus procured is perfectly pure , with the exception of a trace of carbonate .
In appearance it resembles magnesia .
To prepare the peroxide of benzoyl , the chloride of benzoyl and the peroxide of barium are taken in equivalent proportions and mixed in water .
A mutual decomposition takes place ; and a substance is formed which , after crystallization from anhydrous ether , gave the following results to analysis : Carbon ... ... ... ... ... 69'23 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... .
410 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... . .
26-67 100-00 The calculated numbers for the peroxide of benlzoyl are ( C 168.69'42 Jl ... ... ... ... 168 ?
69 ?
42 H1 e ... ... ... .
10 4-13 04 ... ... ... ... 64 26-45 242 100-00 This substance contains an atom of oxygen more tha the anhy363 drous acid , and ( reducing the formula to its simplest expression ) one atom of hydrogen less than the hydrated acid .
Thus we have C1 1 Ho1 03 anhydrous benzoic acid , C14 H1 04 peroxide of benzoyl , and C7 H 02O hydrated benzoic acid , C7 H1 02 peroxide of benzoyl , as we have H20 water , and H2 O2 or HO for the peroxide of hydrogen .
This body crystallizes from ether in large and brilliant crystals .
Heated a little above the boiling-point of water , it decomposes , with a slight explosion and the evolution of carbonic acid .
Boiled with a solution of potash , it is resolved into oxygen gas and benzoic acid .
The peroxide of acetyl is prepared by mixing anhydrous acetic acid and peroxide of barium , in equivalent proportions , in anhydrous ether .
The mixture is to be effected very gradually , being attended with evolution of heat .
The ether , after filtration from the acetate of baryta produced , is to be carefully distilled off at a low temperature , and the fluid which remains washed with water .
After three or four washings , the water ceases to be acid , and a viscid liquid remains , which is the peroxide of acetyl .
This substance possesses the following properties:-It is extremely pungent to the taste ; the smallest portion of it placed upon the tongue burns like cayenne pepper .
The substance suspended in water immediately decolorizes a solution of sulphate of indigo .
It instantly peroxides the protoxide of manganese , and converts the yellow prussiate of potash to the condition of red prussiate .
Baryta-water poured upon the substance is converted to the condition of peroxide of barium , with formation of acetate of baryta .
Lastly , a single drop of the substance itself , placed on a watch-glass and heated , explodes with a loud report , shivering the glass to atoms .
To analyse the peroxide of acetyl , I availed myself of its decomposition by baryta-water .
An undetermined quantity of the substance was thus decomposed , and the oxygen estimated which was evolved by the decomposition of the peroxide of barium formed , by platina-black , and the acetate of baryta determined as sulphate .
The result is the same as though the peroxide of acetyl were decomposed into anhydrous acetic acid and oxygen , thus , 04 H6 04=C4 H 603+ .
Thus for every 16 parts of oxygen evolved , 2 equivalents of acetate 364 of baryta and 1 of sulphate of baryta , SO4 Ba2 , would be produced .
Now we have SO , Ba2 0 2332:16 : : 100 : 686 .
In the actual experiment 1-776 gr. of sulphate of baryta was obtained , and 0'1225 of oxygen evolved .
1-776 : 0-1225 : : 100 : 6-89 .
It has not yet been in my power to pursue further the study of these substances .
I may , however , observe , that the peroxide of acetyl contains the elements of carbonic acid and of the acetate of methyl , and the peroxide of benzoyl the elements of carbonic acid and of the benzoate of phenyl .
I have ascertained that the peroxide of benzoyl , when carefully heated , loses exactly one equivalent of carbonic acid ; but the substance formed , although isomeric with the benzoate of phenyl , has not the properties of that body .
It is a yellow resin , soluble in ether and alkalies , from which latter solution it is precipitated by acids .
The existence of a hydrated peroxide may be anticipated , intermediate between the organic peroxide and the peroxide of hydrogen , in the same sense as the organic acid is intermediate between water and the anhydrous acid .
This substance in the series of benzoyl would be isomeric with salicylic acid .
My efforts , however , to procure these bodies have , as yet , been unsuccessful ; and it is to be remembered that we have no evidence of the existence of a hydrated peroxide of barium , or of any other metal , corresponding to the hydrated protoxide .
In the series of ethyl the diatomic alcohol of of Wurtz ( C2 H O02 ) is isomeric with the hydrated peroxide .
But the true peroxide of ethyl remains yet to be discovered .
The question naturally arises as to what would be the result of making similar experiments with the chlorides and the anhydrides of the bibasic acids .
Now carbonic acid may be regarded as the peroxide of oxalic acid : it is the constant product of the action of oxidizing agents upon that body ; and were we able to procure the unknown anhydride of oxalic acid , it would not be an unreasonable anticipation that with the peroxide of barium it would decompose into oxalate and carbonic acid , thus 2 C , 03 + Ba2 0 , =C O , L Ba2 2CO , .
365 A similar experiment with anhydrous succinic acid would produce succinate of baryta and a homologue of carbonic acid , the existence of which is also indicated by other considerations .
It is premature to dwell upon this point ; but in this direction also I have made some experiments .
II .
" Notice of Researches on the Sulphocyanide and Cyanate of Naphtyl , conducted by VINCENT HALL , Esq. " By A.W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received August 10 , 1858 .
The transformation of phenylcarbamide and phenylsulphocarbamide under the influence of anhydrous phosphoric acid , respectively into cyanate and sulphocyanide of phenyl , an account of which I submitted to the Society several months ago , suggested the probability that the hitherto unknown cyanates and sulphocyanides of radicals similar to phenyl might be obtained by analogous processes .
To establish this point experimentally , Mr. Vincent Hall has examined , in my laboratory , the deportment of some of the derivatives of naphtylamine under the influence of agents capable of fixing ammonia and its analogues .
Mr. Hall has found that the crude naphtaline , such as it is obtained from the gas-works , submitted at once , without sublimation , to the action , first of fuming nitric acid , and subsequently of acetic acid and metallic iron , furnishes the naphtylamine sufficiently pure for these experiments .
The crude product thus obtained was digested with bisulphide of carbon in order to convert it into naphtylsullphocarbamide .
By distilling naphtylsulphocarbamide with anhydrous phosphoric acid , Mr. Hall has obtained a beautiful crystalline compound of a faint but peculiar odour , readily fusible , easily soluble in alcohol and ether , insoluble in water .
The analysis of this compound has led to the formula C22 7 , NS2= C20 H , , C2 NS2 , , showing that it is in fact sulphocyanide of naphtyl , formed according to the equation:(C2 , S , ) " 2 20 1 H7 NC2+C2 , H , C2NS , .
20 11 2}2 11

