lI .
The Croonian Lecture , on some PhysiologicalResearches , respecting the Influence of the Brain on the Action of the Heart , and on the Generation of animal Heat .
By Mr. B.C. Brodie , F.R.S. Read December 20 , i8to , HAVING had the honour of being appointed , by the President of the Royal Society , to give the Croonian Lecture , I trust that the following facts and observations will be considered as tending sufficiently to promote the objects , for which the Lecture was instituted .
They appear to throw some light on the mode , in which the influence of the brain is necessary to the continuance of the action of the heart ; and on the effect , which the:changes produced on the blood in respiration have on the heat of the animal body .
In making experiments on animals to ascertain how far the influence of the brain is necessary to the action of the heart , I found that when an animal was pithed by dividing the spinal marrow in the upper part of the neck , respiration was immediately destroyed , but the heart still continued to contract circulating dark-coloured blood , and that in some instances from ten to fifteen minutes elapsed before its action had entirely ceased .
I further found that when the head was removed , the divided blood vessels being secured by a ligature , the circulation still continued , apparently unaffected by the entire:separation of the brain .
These experiments confirmed the observations of Mr. CRUIKSHANK * and M. BICHAT , f that the brain is not directly necessary to the action of the heart , and that when the functions of the brain are destroyed , the circulation ceases only in consequence of the suspension of respiration .
This led me to conclude , that , if respiration was produced artificially , the heart would continue to contract for a still longer period of time after the removal of the brain .
The truth of this conclusion was ascertained by the following experiment .
Experiment i. I divided the spinal marrow of a rabbit in the space between the occiput and atlas , and having made an opening into the trachea , fitted into it a tube of elastic gum , to which was connected a small pair of bellows , so constructed that the lungs might be inflated , and then allowed to empty themselves .
By repeating this process once in five seconds , the lungs being each time fully inflated with fresh atmospheric air , an artificial respiration was kept up .
I then secured the blood-vessels in the neck , and removed the head , by cutting through the soft parts above the ligature , and separating the occiput from the atlas .
The heart continued to contract , apparently with as much strength and frequency as in a living animal .
I examined the blood in the different sets of vessels , and found it dark-coloured in the vena cavae and pulmonary artery , and of the usual florid red colour in the pulmonary veins and aorta .
At the end of twenty-five minutes from the time of the spinal marrow being divided , the action of the heart became fainter , and the experiment was put an end to .
With a view to promote the enquiry instituted by the Society for promoting the knowledge of animal chemistry respecting the influence of the nerves on the secretions , * I endeavoured to ascertain whether they continued after the influence of the brain was removed .
In the commencement of the experiment I emptied the bladder of its contents by pressure ; at the end of the experiment the bladder continued empty .
This experiment led me to conclude , that the action of the heart might be made to continue after the brain was removed , by means of artificial respiration , but that under these circumstances the secretion of urine did not take place .
It appeared , however , desirable to repeat the experiment on a larger and less delicate animal , and that , in doing so , it would be right to ascertain whether , under these circumstances , the animal heat was kept up to the natural standard .
Experiment 2 .
I repeated the experiment on a middle-sized dog .
The temperature of the room was 63 ?
of FAHIRENHEIT'S thermometer .
By having previously secured the carotid and vertebral arteries , I was enabled to remove the head with little or no hamorrhage .
The artificial respirations were made about twenty-four times in a Iiniute .
The heart acted with regularity and strength .
At the end of 30 minutes from the time of the spinal marrow being divided , the heart was felt through the ribs contracting 76 tires in a minute .
At 35 minutes the pulse had risen to 84 in a minute .
At one hour and 3o minutes the pulse had risen to 88 in a minute .
At the end of two hours it had fallen to 70 , and at the end of two hours and a half to 35 in a minute , and the artificial respiration was no longer continued .
By means of a small thermometer with an exposed bulb , I measured the animal heat at different periods .
At the end of an hour the thermometer in the rectum had fallen from 1oo ?
to 94 ' .
At the end of two hours a small opening being made in the parietes of the thorax , and the ball of the thermometer placed in contact with the heart , the mercury fell to 86 ?
, and half an hour afterwards in the same situation it fell to 780 .
In the beginning of the experiment I made an opening into the abdomen , and having passed a ligature round each artery about two inches below the kidney , brought the edges of the wound in the abdomen together by means of sutures .
At the end of the experiment no urine was collected in the ureters above the ligatures .
On examining the blood in the different vessels , it was found of a florid red colour in the arteries , and of a dark colour in the veins , as under ordinary circumstances .
During the first hour and a half of the experiment there were constant and powerful contractions of the muscles of the trunk and extremities , so that the body of the animal was moved in a very remarkable manner , on the table , on which it lay , and twice there was a copious evacuation of faeces .
Experiment 3 .
The experiment was repeated on a rabbit .
The temperature of the room was 60 ? .
The respirations were made from 3o to 35 in a minute .
The actions of the heart at first were strong and frequent : but at the end of one hour and forty minutes the pulse had fallen to 24 in a minute .
The blood in the arteries was seen of a florid red , and that in the veins of a dark colour .
A small opening was made in the abdominal muscles , through which the thermometer was introduced into the abdomen , and allowed to remain among the viscera .
At the end of an hour the heat in the abdomen had fallen from loo0 to 890 .
At the end of an hour and forty minutes in the same situation the heat had fallen to 85- , and when the bulb of the thermometer was placed in the thorax in contact with the lungs the mercury fell to 82 ? .
It has been a very generally received opinion that the heat of warm-blooded animals is dependant on the chemical changes produced on the blood by the air in respiration .
In the two last experiments the animals cooled very rapidly , notwithstanding the blood appeared to undergo the usual changes in the lungs ) and I was therefore induced to doubt whether the above mentioned opinion respecting the source of animal heat is correct No positive conclusions however could be deduced from these experiments .
If animal heat depends on the changes produced on the blood by the air in respiration , its being kept up to the natural standard , or otherwise , must depend on the quantity of air inspired , and on the quantity of blood passing through the lungs in a given space of time : in other words , .
it must be in proportion to the fullness and frequency of the pulse , and the fullness and frequency of the inspirations .
It therefore became necessary to pay particular attention to these circtumstances , 49 Experiment 4 .
The experiment was repeated on a dog of a small size , whose pulse was from 130 to 140 in a minute , and whose respirations , as far as I could judge , were performed from 30 to 35 times in a minute .
The temperature of the room was 63g .
The heat in the rectum of the animal at the commencement of the experiment was 99 ? .
The artificial inspirations were made to correspond as nearly as possible to the natural inspirations both in fullness and frequency .
At 20 minutes from the time of the dog being pithed , the heart acted 140 times in a minute with as much strength and regularity as before : the heat in the rectum had fallen to 96g .
At 40 minutes the pulse was still 140 in a minute : the heat in the rectum 92C .
At 5 minutes the pulse was 1 e , and the heat in the rectum 9go .
At one hour and 16 minutes the pulse beat 90 in a minute , and the heat in the rectum was 88 ? .
At one hour and 25 minutes the pulse had sunk to 30 , and the heat in the rectum was 85 .
The bulb of the thermometer being placed in the bag of the pericardium , the mercury stood at 85 ?
, but among the viscera of the abdomen it rose to 871 .
During the experiment there were frequent and violent contractions of the voluntary muscles , and an hour after the experiment was begun , there was an evacuation of faeces .
Experiment 5 .
The experiment was repeated on a rabbit , whose respirations , as far as I could judge , were from 30 to 40 in a minute , and whose pulse varied from 130 to 140 in a minute .
The temperature of the room was 57o .
The heat in the rectum , at the commencement of the experiment , was iol- .
The artificial respirations were made to resemble the natural respirations as much as possible , both in fullness and frequency .
At 15 minutes from the time of the spinal marrow being divided , the heat in the rectum had fallen to 980 ? .
At the end of half an hour the heart was felt through the ribs , acting strongly 140 times in a minute .
At 45 minutes the pulse was still 140o ; the heat in the rectum was 94 ? .
At the end of an hour the pulse continued 140 in a minute ; the heat in the rectum was 92 ?
; among the viscera of the abdo .
men 940 ; in the thorax , between the lungs and pericardium,920 ?
During the experiment , the blood in the femoral artery was seen to be of a bright florid colour , and that in the femoral vein of a dark colour , as usual .
The rabbit voided urine at the commencement of the experiment ; at the end of the experiment , no urine was found in the bladder .
Experiment 6 .
I procured two rabbits of the same colour , but one of them was about one-fifth smaller than the other .
I divided the spinal marrow of the larger rabbit between the occiput and atlas .
Having secured the vessels in the , neck , and removed the head , I kept up the circulation by means of artificial respiration as in the former experiments .
The respirations were made as nearly as possibble similar to natural respirations .
In 23 minutes after the spinal marrow was divided , the pulse was strong , and 130 in a minute : the ball of the thermometer being placed among the viscera of the abdomen , the mercury stood at 96 ? .
42 At 34 minutes the pulse was 120 in a minute ; the heat in the abdomen was 95 ? .
At the end of an hour the pulse could not be felt , but on opening the thorax the heart was found : acting , but slowly and feebly .
The heat in the abdomen was 91o ; and between the lobes of the right lung 88o .
During the experiment , the blood in the arteries and veins was seen to have its usual colour .
In this therefore , as in the preceding experiments , the heat of the animal sunk rapidly , notwithstanding the continuance of the respiration .
In order to ascertain whether any heat at all was generated by this process , I made the following comparative experiment .
The temperature of the room being the same , I killed the smaller rabbit by dividing the'spinal marrow between the occiput and atlas .
In consequence of the difference of size , ceteris paribus , the heat in this rabbit ought to diminish more rapidly than in the other ; and I therefore examined its temperature at the end of 5e minutes , considering that this would be at least equivalent to examining that of the larger rabbit at the end of an hour .
At 5 minutes from the time of the smaller rabbit being killed , the heat among the viscera of the abdomen was 92 ?
, and between the lobes of the right lung it was 91l .
From this experiment , therefore , it appeared not only that no heat was generated in the rabbit , in which the circulation was maintained by artificial respiration , but that it even cooled more rapidly than the dead rabbit .
At the suggestion of Professor DAVY , who took an interest in the enquiry , I repeated the foregoing experiment on two animals , taking pains to procure them more nearly of the same size and colour .
Experiment 7 .
I procured two large full grown rabbits , of the same colour , and so nearly equal in size , that no difference could be detected by the eye .
The temperature of the room was 57o , and the heat in the rectum of each rabbit previous to the experiment was ioof .
I divided the spinal marrow in one of them , produced artificial respiration , and removed the head after having secured the vessels in the neck .
The artificial respirations were made about 35 times in a minute .
During the first hour , the heart contracted 144 times in a minute .
At the end of an hour and a quarter the pulse had fallen to 136 in a minute , and it continued the same at the end of an hour and a half .
At the end of an hour and forty minutes the pulse had fallen to 90 in a minute , and the artificial respiration was not continued after this period .
Half an hour after the spinal marrow was divided , the heat in the rectum had fallen to 97 ? .
At 45 minutes the heat was 95- .
At the end of an hour the heat in the rectum was 94 ? .
At an hour and a quarter it was 92 ? .
At an hour and a half it was 91 ? .
At an hour and forty minutes , the heat in the rectum was 90- , and in the thorax , within the bag of the pericardium , the heat was 87- .
The temperature of the room being the same , the second rabbit was killed by dividing the spinal marrow , and the temperature was examined at corresponding periods .
Half an hour after the rabbit was killed , the heat in the rectum was 99 ? .
At 45 minutes it had fallen to 98 ? .
At the end of an hour the heat in the rectum was 964 .
At an hour and a quarter it was 95o .
At an hour and a half it was 94o .
At an hour and forty minutes the heat in the rectum was 93 ?
, and in the bag of the pericardium 90go .
The following table will show the comparative temnrr , i- ; r of the two animals at corresponding periods .
i. ~Rabbit with artificial respiration .
Dead Rabbit .
itime ... . .
T ime ... . .
--- ... ... . .
Teot.n ThI it ... Therm. in the Therm. in the ' Thermometer in ' Thrmin .
i : , ; - : Rectum .
Pericardium .
the Rectum .
Pericardiuam I Before the iExperiment J 12oogo min. 97 99 45 9598 60 94 , 96 I 75 92 95 90 91 94.10090J 8793 90 In this experiment , the thorax , even in the dead animal , cooled more rapidly than the abdomen .
This is to be explained by the difference in the bulk of these two parts .
The rabbit in which the circulation was maintained by artificial respiration , cooled more rapidly than the dead rabbit , but the difference was more perceptible in the thorax than in the rectum .
This is what might be expected , if the production of animal heat does not depend on respiration , since the cold air by which the lungs were inflated , must necessarily have abstracted a certain quantity of heat , particularly as its influence was communicated to all parts of the body , in consequence of the continuance of respiration .
It was suggested that some animal heat might have been generated , though so small in quantity as not to ccunterbalance the cooling powers of the air thrown into the lungs .
It is difficult or impossible , to ascertain with perfect accuracy , what effect cold air thrown into the lungs would have on the temperature of an animal under the circumstances of the last experiment , independently of any chemical action on the blood : since , if no chemical changes were produced , the circulation could not be maintained , and if the circulation ceased , the cooling properties of the air must be more confined to the thorax , and not communicated in an equal degree to the more distant parts .
The following experiment , however , was instituted , as likely to afford a nearer approximation to the truth , than any other that could be devised .
Exerzenet 8 .
I procured two rabbits of the same size and colour : the temperature of the room was 64 ? .
I killed one of them by dividing the spinal marow , and immediately , having made an opening into the left side of the thorax , I tied a ligature round the base of the heart , so as to stop the circulation .
The wound in the skin was closed by a suture .
An opening was then made into the trachea , and the apparatus for artificial respiration being fitted into it , the lungs were inflated , and then allowed to collapse as in the former experiment , about 36 times in a minute .
This was continued for an hour and aa nd t}ix temp. rat-ure was examniied at different periods .
The temperature of the room being the same , I killed the second rabbit in the same manteri , and measured the temnperature at corresponding periods .
TIe comparative temperature of the two dead anilnas , under these circumstances , will be seen in the following table .
ead Rabbit w(hose Itmgs ead labbit whose lungs Tin ?
lwere inflated .
were not inflated .
T Time .
__ iTherm .
in the ' Therm. in the Therm. in the Therm. in the Rectum .
Thorax .
Rectum .
Thora x " Before the ex-l periment . ?
00 100 3 nomin .
97 9 o8 45-952 96 6094 94 75 _ 92 2 .
93 9091 86 988 In this last experiment , as may be seen from the above table , the difference in the temperature of the two rabbits , at the end of an hour and a half , in the rectum , was half a degree , and in the thorax two degrees and a half ; whereas , in the preceding experiment , at the end of an hour and forty minutes , the difference in the rectum was sdegrees , and in the thorax 3 degrees .
It appears , thereore , that the rabbit in which,.the circulation was maintained by artificial respiration , cooled more rapidly on the whole than the rabbit whose lungs Were inflated in the same manner after the circulation had ceased .
This is what might be expected , if no heat was produced by the chemical action of the air on the blood ; since in the last case the cold air was always applied to the same surface , but in the former it was applied always to fresh ortions of blood , by which its cooling powers were communicated to the more dis-tant parts of the body .
In the course of the experiments which I have related , I was much indebted to several members of the Society for promoting the Knowledge of Animal Chemistry , for many inportant suggestions which have assisted me in prosecuting the enquiry .
Mr. HoM , at my request , was present at the seventh experiment .
Dr. E. N. BANCROF[ was present at , and assisted me in the second experiment ; and Mr. WILLIAM BRAND lent me his assistance in the greater part of those which were made .
I have been further assisted in making the experiments by Mr. BROUGHTON , surgeon of the Dorsetshire Regi meant of Militia , and Mr. RICHARD RAWLINS , and Mr. ROBERT GATCOMBE , students in Surgery .
I have selected the above from a great number of similar experiments , which it would be needless to detail .
It is sufficient to state , that the general results were always the same ; and that whether the pulse was frequent or slow full or small , or whether the respirations were frequent or otherwise , there was no perceptible difference in the cooling of the animal .
From the whole we ay deduce the following conclusions : i. The influence of the brain is not directly necessary to the action of the heart .
2 .
When the brain is injured or removed , the action of the heart ceases , only because respiration is under its influence , and if under these circumstances respiration is artificially produced , the circulation will still continue .
$ .
When the influence of the brain is cut off , the secretion of urine appears to cease , and no heat is generated ; notwithstanding the functions of respiration , and the circulation of the blood continue to be perFormed , and the usual changes in the appearance of the blood are produced in the lungs .
4 .
When the air respired is colder than the natural temperature of the animal , the effect of respiration is not to generate , but to diminish animal heat A

