XIX .
Further Experiments and Observations on the influence of the Brain on the generation of Animal Heat .
By B. C. Brodie , Esq. F. R. S. Communicated to the Society for promoting the knowledge of Animal Chemistry , and by them to the Royal Society .
Read June 18 , 1812 .
IN the Croonian Lecture for the year 18io , I gave an account of some experiments , which led me to conclude that the production of animal heat is very much under the influence of the nervous system .
Some circumstances , which I have since met with , illustrate this subject , and seem to confirm the truth of my former conclusions .
In an animal , which is under the influence of a poison , that operates by disturbing the functions of the brain , in proportion as the sensibility becomes impaired , so is the power of generating heat impaired also .
If an animal is apparently dead from a poison of this description , and the circulation of the blood is afterwards maintained by means of artificial respiration , the generation of heat is found to be as completely destroyed , as if the hlead had been actually removed .
Under these circumstances , if the artificial respiration is kept up until the effects of the poison cease , as the animal recovers his sensibility , so does he also recover the power of generating heat ; but it is not till the nervous energy is completely restored , that heat is produced in sufficient quantity to counteract the cold of the surrounding atmosphere.* In the experiments formerly detailed , as well as in those just mentioned , I observed that the blood underwent the usual alteration of colour in the two systems of capillary vessels , while carbonic acid was evolved from the lungs at each expiration ; and hence I was led to believe , that the respiratory function was performed nearly as under ordinary circumstances , and that the usual chemical changes were produced on the blood .
It appeared , however , desirable to obtain some more accurate knowledge on this point , and I have therefore instituted a series of experiments , for the purpose of ascertaining the relative quantities of air consumed in breathing , by animals in a natural state , and by animals in which the brain has ceased to perform its office , and I now have the honour of communicating an account of these experiments to this Society .
It has been shown , by Messrs. ALLEN and PEPYS , first , t that every cubic inch of carbonic acid requires exactly a cubic inch of oxygen gas for its formation ; secondly , that when respiration is performed by a warm-blooded animal in atmospheric air , the azote remains unaltered , and the carbonic acid exactly equals , volume for volume , the oxygen gas , which disappears .
There is therefore reason to believe , that the watery vapour , which escapes with the air in expiration , is not formed from the union of hydrogen with oxygen in the lungs , but that it is exhaled from the mucous membrane of the mouth and pha .
rynx , resembling the watery exhalation which takes place from the peritonaum , or any other internal surface when exposed ; and this conclusion appears to be fully confirmed by the experiments of M. MAGENDIE , lately communicated to the National Institute of Paris .
These circumstances are of importance in the present communication , which they render more simple , as they show , that , in order to ascertain the changes produced on the air in respiration , it is only necessary to find the quantity of carbonic acid given out from the lungs .
This becomes an exact measure of the oxygen consumed , and the azote of the air and the watery vapour expired , need not be taken into the account .
For the purpose of examining the changes produced on the air , by animals breathing under the different circumstances abovementioned , I contrived the apparatus , which is represented in the annexed Plate .
Description of the Apparatus .
A. Is a wooden stand , in which is a circular groove of an inch in depth , and the same in width .
B. Is a bell-glass , the rim of which is received in the circular groove of the wooden stand .
In the upper part of the bellglass is an opening , admitting a tube connected with the bladder C. D. Is a bottle of elastic gum , having a brass stop-cock E connected with it .
F. Is a silver tube , of which one end is adapted to receive the tube of the stop-cock E , while the other extremity , niaking a right angle with the rest of the tube , passes through a hole in the wooden stand , and projects into the cavity of the bellglass , where it makes a second turn also at a right angle , and becomes of a smaller diameter .
In the upright part of the tube is an opening G. The tubes are made perfectly air-tight , where connected with each other , and with the rest of the apparatus , and the circular groove is filled with quicksilver .
The capacity of the bell-glass , allowance being made for the rim , which is received in the groove with the quicksilver , is found to be 502 cubic inches .
The capacity of the gumbottle is 52 cubic inches , and in the calculations after the experiments 2 cubic inches have been allowed for the air contained in the different tubes , and for the small remains of air in the bladder after being nearly emptied by pressure .
Mode of using the Apparatus .
In order to ascertain the quantity of air consumed under ordinary circumstances , the animal was placed on the stand under the bell-glass , the bladder being emptied by pressure , and the gum-bottle being distended with atmospheric air .
During the experiment , by pressing occasionally on the gumbottle , the air was forced from it into the bell-glass .
On removing the pressure , the gum-bottle became filled by its own elasticity with air from the bell-glass .
Thus the air was kept in a state of agitation , and the dilatation of the bladder prevented the air being forced through the quicksilver under the edge of the bell-glass .
At the end of the experiment , the gum-bottle was completely emptied by pressure , and allowed to be again filled with air from the bell-glass : this was repeated 2'DcCCCXII 3D 38S two or threetimes , and the air in the bottle was then preserved for examination .
The proportion of carbonic acid being ascertianed , and the capacities of the different parts of the apparatus , and the space occupied by the animal being known , the total quantity of carbonic acid formed , and consequently of oxygen consumed , was easily estimated .
When the experiment was made on an animal , in whom the functions of the brain were destroyed , and in whom therefore voluntary respiration had ceased , the narrow extremity of the tube was inserted into an artificial opening in the tra .
chea , and the animal being placed under the bell-glass , the lungs were inflated at regular intervals , by means of pressure made on the gum-bottle .
The tube being smaller than the trachea , the greater portion of the air in expiration escaped by the side of the tube into the general cavity of the bell-glass , while the gum-bottle filled itself by its own elasticity with air through the opening G. At the end of the experiment , a portion of air was preserved for examination , and the quantity of carbonic acid was estimated in the way already described .
The animals employed in these experiments were of the same species , and nearlyof the same size .
Attention to these circumstances was judged necessary , that the results might be as conclusive as possible .
The chemical examination of the air was made by agitating it in a graduated measure over quicksilver , with a watery solution of potash .
My friend Mr. BRAND gave me his assistance in this part of the present investigation , as he had done on many former occasions .
It will be observed , that in estimating the proportion of carbonic acid , no allowance has been made for that contained in,82 hle atmospheric air ; first , because the quantity is so small that the omission can occasion no material error ; and secondly , because the object is to ascertain , not so much the absolute , as the relative quantities of carbonic acid evolved by animals breathing under different circumstances .
The experiments which I shall first notice , were made on the respiration of animals in a natural state .
Experiment 1 .
Thermometer 65 ' , barometer not noted .
A young rabbit was allowed to remain under the bell-glass during 30 minutes .
The respired air at the end of this time was found to contain 4 , of carbonic acid .
It was ascertained that the rabbit occupied the space of 50 zcubic inches .
The capacity of the bell-glass = 502 cubic inches .
That of the gum-bottle g5 cubic inches .
The air in the tubes and bladder =2 cubic inches .
Then 502 + 52 + 250 5o6 Then -l ? ?
2 ' 20 = 25.3 .
20 20 The rabbit therefore in 3o minutes gave out 25.3 cubic inches of carbonic acid , and consumed the same quantity of oxygen gas , which is at the rate of 50.6 in an hour .
Exp. 2 .
Thermometer 65 ?
, barometer o3.1 inches .
A somewhat smaller rabbit was allowed to remain under the bell-glass during o3 minutes .
The respired air contained Fr of carbonic acid .
The animal occupied the space of 48 cubic inches .
502 +52 + 2-48 508_ 8 i8 -2822 The carbonic acid evolved was therefore equal to 28.22 cubic inches in ihalf an hour , which is at the rate of 56.44 cubic inches in an houro Exp. S. Thermometer 647 , barometer 30.2 inches .
A young rabbit , occupying the space of 48 cubic inches , wa : allowed to remain under the bel-glass , during the same period as in the two former instances .
The respired air contained of carbonic acid , 502 +Z+ 48 2 58 The results of this were therefore precisely the same as those of the last experiment .
These experiments were made with great care .
The animals did not appear to suffer any inconvenience from their confinement , and their temperature was unaltered .
The next order of experiments were made for the purposeof ascertaining the quantity of air consumed by animals , in which the circulation of the blood was kept up by means of artificial respiration , after the brain had ceased to perform its functions .
Exp. 4 .
Thermometer 6 , barometer not noted .
Having procured two rabbits of the same size and colour , I divided the spinal marrow in the upper part of the neck of one of them .
An opening was made in the trachea , and the lungs were inflated at first by means of a small pairof .
bellows .
Two ligatures were passed round the neck , one in the upper , and the other in the lower part , behind the trachea .
The ligatures were drawn tight , including every thing but the trachea ; and the nerves , vessels , and other soft parts between them were divided with a bistoury .
Eight minttes after the division of the spinal marrow , the thermometer in the rectutm had sunk to 97 ? .
The animal was placed under a bell-glass , and the lungs were inflated by pressing on the gum-bottle about s384 o5 times in a minute .
When this process had been continued for 3o minutes , a portion of air was preserved for examination .
The heart was found acting regularly , but slowly , the thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 90 .
The second rabbit was killed by dividing the spinal marrow about the same time when the experiment was begun on the first rabbit .
Being in the same temperature , the time was noted when the thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 97 ?
, and it was placed under another bell-glass , that it might be as nearly as possible under the same circumstances with the first rabbit .
At the end of o0 minutes , the thermometer in the rectum had fallen from 97 to 91.* The air respired by the first rabbit contained 5 of carbonic acid .
The bulk of the rabbit was found = 50 cubic inches .
502 + 52Z + z-o 506 : : 25 25 S 0o.24 cubic inches of carbonic acid were therefore extricated in 30 minutes , which is at the rate of 40.48 cubic inches in an hour .
The carbonic acid given out in the same space of time was less than in the former experiments ; but it is to be observed , first , that in consequence of the ligatures the extent of the circulation was diminished ; secondly , that in this instance one of the ligatures accidentally slipped , and an ounce of blood was lost in the beginning of the experiment .
As it was desirable to avoid any circumstances , which might occasion a difference in the results , in the subsequent experi* In measuring the heat of the rectum in these experiments , care is necessary that the thermometer should always be introduced to exactly the same distance from the external parts , otherwise no positive conclusion can be drawn relative to the loss of heat , as the more internal parts retain their heat longer th ; a the isuperi alments I employed animals , which had been inoculated with the poison of woorara , or the essential oil of almonds ; by which means , while the functions of the brain were completely destroyed , the extent of the circulation was undiminished , and all chance of accidental hbmorrhage was avoided .
Exp. 5 .
Thermometer 6 ?
, barometer 29.8 inches .
Two rabbits were procured , each occupying the space of 45 cubic inches .
They were both inoculated with the woorara poison .
The first rabbit was apparently dead in nine minutes after the application of the poison ; but the heart continued to act .
The lungs were inflated for about two minutes , by means of a pair of bellows , when the thermometer in the rectum was observed to stand at 98 ? .
The animal was placed under the bell-glass , and artificial respiration was produced by means of pressure on the gum-bottle , as in the last experiment .
At the end of 3o minutes , a portion of air was preserved for examination .
The thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 91 ? .
The heart still acted with regularity and strength .
The second rabbit died in a few minutes after the inoculation .
The time was noted when the thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 980 , and he was placed under a bell-glass .
At the end of 3o minutes , the thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 92 ? .
The air respired by the first rabbit contained r of carbonic.acid .
2 ? ?
20+ + 45 = 51 =25S55 cubic inches of carbonic acid evolved in 3o minutes , which is at the rate of 51.1 cubic inches in an hour .
S86 Exp. 6 .
Thermometer 66 ?
, barometer 30.1 inches .
Two rabbits , each occupying the space of-48 cubic inches , were inoculated with woorara .
In one of them , when apparently dead , the circulation was kept up by means of artificial respiration .
He was placed in the apparatus under the bell-glass , and the lungs were inflated from 50 to 60 times in a minute .
At this time the thermometer in the rectum stood at 97 ? .
At the end of 35 minutes , a portion of air was preserved for examination .
The thermometer had now fallen to 90 ' .
The heart was still acting regularly .
The second rabbit was allowed to lie dead .
When the thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 97 ?
, he was placed under another bell-glass .
At the end of 35 minutes , the thermometer had fallen to 90 ?
.5 .
The air respired by the first rabbit contained -y of carbonic acid .
50+2+I5z 48 _ 508 2I 52 -4 -5 ' = $31.75 cubic inches of carbonic acid evolved in 35 minutes , which is at the rate of 54.43 ; cubic inches in an hour .
Exp. 7 .
Thermometer 60 ?
, barometer 30.2 inches .
The experiment was repeated on a rabbit , which had been inoculated with the essential oil of almonds .
When he was placed under the bell-glass , the thermometer in the rectum stood at 96 ? .
In a few minutes he gave signs of sensibility , and made efforts to breathe ; but as these efforts were at long intervals , the artificial respiration was continued .
In half anl hour he breathed spontaneously 40 times in a minute .
The thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 90o s87 The air being examined , was found to contain Iof carbonic acid .
The rabbit occupied the space of 47 cubic inches .
50z + 52 + 2-4_7 509. .
52-+ --47 = 5--9 28.275 cubic inches of carbonic acid evolved in 30 minutes , which is at the rate of 56.55 cubic inches in an hour .
The animal lay as if in a state of profound sleep .
At the end of two hours and twenty minutes , from the time of the poison being applied , the thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 79 ?
, and he was again apparently dead ; but the heart still continued acting , though feebly , and its action was kept up for go minutes longer by means of artificial breathing , when the thermometer had fallen to 76 ? .
The carbonic acid evolved during these last 3o minutes , amounted to nearly 13 .
cubic inches .
From the precautions with which these experiments were made , I am induced to hope that there can be no material error in their results .
They appear to warrant the conclusion , that in an animal in which the brain has ceased to exercise its functions , although respiration continues to be performed , and the circulation of the blood is kept up to the natural standard , although the usual changes in the sensible qualities of the blood take place in the two capillary systems , and the same quantity of carbonic acid is formed as under ordinary circumstances ; no heat is generated , and ( in consequence of the cold air thrown into the lungs ) the animal cools more rapidly ltha one which is actually dead .
It is a circumstance deserving of notice , that so Iare a 388 iquantity of air should be consumed by the blood passing through the lungs , when the functions of the brain , and those of the organs dependant on it , are suspended .
Perhaps it is mot unreasonable to suppose , that by pursuing this line of investigation we may be enabled to arrive at some more precise knowledge respecting the nature of respiration , and the purposes which it answers in the animal economy .
It would however be foreign to the plan of the present communication to enter into any speculations on this subject , and I shall therefore only remark , that the influence of the nervous system does not appear to be necessary to the production of the chemical changes , which the blood undergoes in consequence of exposure to the air in the lungs.* The facts now , as well as those formerly adduced , go far towards proving , that the temperature of warm-blooded animals is considerably under the influence of the nervous systerm ; but what is the nature of the connection between them ?
whether is the brain directly or indirectly necessary to the production of heat ?
these are questions to which no answers can be given , except such as are purely hypothetical .
At present we must be content with the knowledge of the insulated fact : future observations may , perhaps , enable us to refer it to some more general principle .
We have evidence , that , when the brain ceases to exercise its functions , although those of the heart and lungs continue to be performed , the animal loses the power of generating heat .
It would , however , be absurd to argue from this fact , that the chemical changes of the blood in the lungs are in no way necessary to the production of heat , since we know of no instance in which it continues to take place after respiration has ceased .
It must be owned , that this part of physiology still presents an ample field for investigation .
Of opinions sanctioned by the names of BLACK , LAPLACE , LAVOISIER , and CRAWFORD , it is proper to speak with caution acid is evolved , the inspirations are much diminished in frequency , and the blood in the arteries of the general system assumes a darker hue ; but its natural colour may be restored by artificially inflating the lungs , so as to furnish a greater supply of air to the blood circulating through them .
We may suppose , that , on the division of these nerves , the sensibility of the lungs is either extremely impaired , or altogether destroyed , so that the animal does not feel the same desire to draw in fresh air : in consequence his inspirations become less frequent than natural , and hence arise the phenomena produced by this operas tion .
-and respect , but without trespassing on these feelings , I may be allowed to say , that it does not appear to me that any of the theories hitherto proposed afford a very satisfactory explanation of the source of animal heat .
Where so many and such various chemical processes are going on , as in the living body , are we justified in selecting any one of these for the purpose of explaining the production of heat ?
To the original theory of Dr. BLACK , there is this unanswerable objection , that the temperature of the lungs is not greater than that of the rest of the system .
To this objection , the ingenious and beautiful theory of Dr. CRAWFORD is not open ; but still it is founded on the same basis with that of Dr. BLACK , " the conversion of oxygen into carbonic acid in the lungs , " and hence it appears to be difficult to reconcile either of them with the results of the experiments which have been related .
It may perhaps be urged , that as in these experiments the secretions had nearly , if not entirely ceased , it is probable that the other changes , which take place in the capillary vessels had ceased also , and that although the action of the air on the blood might have been the same as under ordinary circumstances , there might not have been the same alteration in the specific heat of this fluid , as it flowed from the arteries into the veins .
But , on this supposition , if the theory of Dr. CRAWFORD be admitted as correct , there must have been a gradual , but enormous accumulation of latent heat in the blood , which we.cannot suppose to have taken place without its nature having been entirely altered .
If the blood undergoes the -sual change in the capillary system of the pulmonary , it is 3E$ probable that it must undergo the usual change in the capil lary system of the greater circulation also , since these changes are obviously dependent on and connected with each other .
The blood in the aorta and pulmonary veins was not more florid , and that in the vena cava and pulmonary artery was not less dark-coloured than under ordinary circumstances .
We may moreover remark , that the most copious secretions in thie whole body are those of the insensible perspiration from the skin , and of the watery vapour from the mouth and fauces , and the effect of these must be to lower rather than to raise the animal temperature .
Under other circumstances also the diminution of the secretions is not observed to be attended with a diminution of heat .
On the contrary , in the hot fit of a fever , when the scanty dark-coloured urine , dry skin , and parched mouth indicate that scarcely any secretions are taking place , the temperature of the body is raised above the natural standard , to which it falls when the constitution returns to its natural state , and the secretions are restored .
It has been observed , by a distinguished chemist , that ( the experiments to determine the specific heat of the blood are of so very delicate a nature , that it is difficult to receive them , with perfect confidence."* The experiments of Dr. CRAWFORD for this purpose were necessarily made on blood out of the body , and at rest .
Now , when blood is taken from the vessels , it immediately undergoes a remarkable chemical change , separating into a solid and a fluid part .
This separation is not complete for some time ; but whoever takes the pains to make observations on the subject , can hardly doubt that it begins to take place immediately on the blood being drawn .
Can expeTiiOMSON 's History of the Royal Society , p. 129 .
riments on the blood , under these circumstances , lead to any very satisfactory conclusions , respecting the specific heat of blood circulating in the vessels of the bodyg The diluting the blood with large quantities of water , as proposed by Dr. CRAWFORD , does not altogether remove the objection , for this only retards , it does not prevent coagulation , and some time must , at any rate , elapse , while the blood is flowing and thequantity is being measured , during which the separation of its : solid and fluid parts will have begun to take place .
More might be said on this subject ; but I feel anxious to avoid , as much as possible , controversial discussion .
It is my wish not to advance opinions , but simply to state some facts , which I have met with in the course of my physiological investigations .
These facts , I am willing to hope , possess some , value ; and they may perhaps lead to the developement of other facts of much greater importance .
Physiology is yet in its infant state .
It embraces a great number and variety of phenomena , and of these it is very difficult to obtain an accurate and satisfactory knowledge ; but it is not unreasonable to expect , that by the successive labours of individuals , and the faithful register of their observations , it may at last be enabled .
to assume the form of a more perfect science , .
S93

