I. " Note on the Melting-point and Transformations of Sulphur .
" By B.C. BC .
Ro , Es , q. , R.S. Received March 30 , 1854 .
In the treatises of chemistry where the results of different observers are collected , various statements will be found as to the melting-point of sulphur .
The numbers given in Gmelin 's Chemistry vary from 104 ?
'5 C. to 112 ?
'2 C. , but of five chemists cited , no two agree as to this apparently simple fact .
There is evidently some peculiarity about this melting-point which is the cause of these anomalous results .
In some experiments on allotropic substances , in which I have been engaged , I had occasion to submit this question to a more searching inquiry than it had hitherto received , in which I have discovered the cause of these discrepancies .
In the present note I will briefly give the results at which I have arrived , reserving the details for a further and more full communication .
The melting-point of sulphur varies according to its allotropic condition .
This condition is readily altered by heat , and invariably , without peculiar precautions , by melting .
Hence the temperature at which sulphur melts is different from that at which it will solidify , or at which , having been melted , it will melt again .
The melting-point of the octohedral sulphur , as crystallized from the bisulphide of carbon , is 114 ?
'5 C. But from the facility with which this sulphur , when heated even below its melting-point , passes into the sulphur of the oblique system , this fact may readily be overlooked .
When this sulphur , in the state of fine powder , is heated even for the shortest time between 100 ?
and 114 ?
'5 , this change cannot be avoided .
For the transformation of large crystals a longer time is required .
At a certain point the crystal becomes opake , and is often broken in pieces at the moment of the change .
When in such a crystal this change has either entirely or partially taken place , the melting-point will be above 114 ?
'5 .
The minute crystals of sulphur from alcohol , which are so extremely thin that their angles cannot be measured , have this melting-point of 114 ?
'5 , which fixes the system to which the crystals belong .
The crystals of sulphur from benzole ( rectified coal naphtha ) melt also at 114 ?
'5 .
The crystals from alcohol are very minute , consequently so readily transformed , that they presented anomalies which led me to doubt whether sulphur of both forms did not exist among them .
I answered this question by dividing a certain number of carefully selected crystals , and taking the melting-point of the two halves of the same crystal .
I found that these melting-points in many cases did not correspond , which would have been the case if the anomalies had arisen from the different nature of the crystals .
Sulphur which has been melted at 114 ?
'5 , and of which the temperature has not been raised above 115 ?
, remains , on solidification , perfectly transparent for any length of time .
Heated beyond this point , it becomes , on cooling , more or less opake .
When sulphur has been converted by heating for a sufficient length of time , in the manner above mentioned , between 100 ?
and 114 ?
'5 , it acquires a fixed melting-point of 120 ?
C. This is the melting-point of the oblique prismatic sulphur .
If sulphur thus converted be carefully melted so as to raise the temperature as little as possible above the melting-point , no sensible difference will be observed between the point of melting and of solidification .
To obtain this fixed melting-point of 120 ?
, care must be taken that the transformation of the sulphur has been thoroughly effected .
If this be not done , it may melt at any point between 1140 ?
5 and 120 ? .
If , however , the temperature of the melted sulphur be raised above its melting-point of 120 ?
, the point of solidification will be altered , and may lie even below the first melting-point of 1140 ?
5* .
The point of solidification is in this case not fixed , but depends upon the temperature to which the sul* This has been observed by Person , who states that if sulphur be heated above 150 ?
its melting-point is lowered to about 112 ?
or 110 ? .
He says , that when heated with care , the thermometer will remain constant during crystallization , at 115 ? .
I have not found this correct.-Ann .
de Chemie , vol. xxi .
p. 323 .
phur is raised and upon the mode in which it is cooled .
It has varied in my experiments from 118 ?
to as low as 111 ? .
When the meltingpoint of the sulphur , thus solidified , is taken , it will begin to melt at about the temperature of solidification .
The cause of this anomaly is evident .
When the temperature of sulphur is raised above 120 ?
, a transformation into the viscid form instantly commences , so that the sulphur is a mixture of the two varieties , and the meltingpoint varies according to the proportion in which these two varieties are mixed .
It varies inversely with the temperature to which the sulphur is raised , so that the presence of the viscid sulphur lowers the point of solidification .
There is , however , a limit beyond which the melting-point is not affected by this admixture .
I made the experiment of pouring sulphur , heated to its boiling-point , into water of different temperatures , and of taking the melting-point of the sulphur when it had become hard .
Five different preparations , which , when extracted with bisulphide of carbon , gave each a different quantity of insoluble sulphur , coincided in the melting-point of about 112 ? .
This sulphur , before melting , becomes transparent , and passes again into the viscid or elastic condition .
The sulphur which is insoluble in bisulphide of carbon , and which is prepared by extracting the hardened viscid sulphur with that reagent , has a melting-point considerably above 120 ?
, but which I have not been able to determine with precision .
I had placed in a water-bath , at 100 ?
, tubes containing fragments of the three definite varieties of sulphur .
After a short time , on examining the tubes , I found the insoluble sulphur , which I have stated to have such a high melting-point , distinctly melted .
The octohedral sulphur had become opake and rounded at the edges , the other was unaltered in appearance .
Further inquiry convinced me that the cause of the melting of the insoluble sulphur was , that it had passed into another modification , and that this conversion was attended with evolution of heat sufficient to melt the sulphur .
The insoluble sulphur thus converted remains transparent , and is perfectly soluble in bisulphide of carbon .
It is stated in chemical treatises that the opacity which on solidification comes over the melted sulphur , is due to the transformation of the oblique prismatic into the octohedral sulphur , and the consequent disruption of the crystal .
To this cause also is attributed the evolution of heat which has been observed in solid sulphur immediately after cooling .
There are , however , no sufficient grounds for this view , and some of the observations which I have given are decidedly adverse to it .
1 .
The change readily takes place , even at temperatures at which sulphur becomes opake , in the opposite direction , namely , from the octohedron to the oblique prism .
2 .
The meltingpoint of the opake sulphur coincides too nearly with its point of solidification for it to be supposed that this change in it has taken place .
On extracting melted sulphur which had become opake , with bisulphide of carbon , I have constantly found present traces of insoluble matter , even where the greatest precaution had been taken to avoid elevation of temperature ; and this opacity appears to me to be due to the hardening of the viscid sulphur , and the consequent deposition of opake matter in the pores of the crystals , which is quite sufficient to account for it .
It remains to ascertain the cause of the evolution of the heat .
On this point also I will offer a suggestion .
It is well known that the appearance of opacity is delayed by pouring the sulphur into cold water , and that the sulphur thus formed is at first viscid and transparent , and only after a time becomes solid and opake .
The received view , I believe , is that the hard sulphur thus formed is the solid form of the viscid sulphur , in the same sense as ice is the solid form of water .
It appears to me more probable that these two sulphurs stand in a different relation , and that the change which takes place on solidification is an allotropic transformation of the viscid sulphur into the insoluble sulphur and one of the other modifications .
In the case of sulphur gradually cooled this change takes place with rapidity , and , like other similar transformations , is attended with a sensible evolution of heat .
Where the sulphur is tempered the change takes place very slowly , and the heat evolved is not perceived .
This view is confirmed by a fact which I have discovered , namely , that the viscid sulphur possesses another solid form .
I have found that when sulphur , melted at a high temperature , is suddenly exposed to intense cold the cold of solid carbonic acid and ether the sulphur formed is not viscid , but solid , hard , and perfectly transparent .
When the temperature is allowed to rise to that of the air , the sulphur becomes soft and elastic .
It is probable that this is the true solid form of the viscid sulphur .

