X. Experiments and Observations on the different Modes in which Death s produced by certain vegetable Poisons .
By B. C. Brodie , Esq. F. R. S. Communicated by the Society for promoting the Knowledge of Animal Chemistry .
Read February 2i , 1811 .
I. THE following experiments were instituted with a view to ascertain , in what manner certain substances act on the animal system , so as to occasion death , independently of mechanical injury .
I was led to the inquiry , from the subject of it appearing to be of considerable iinterest ad importance , and from a hope , that , in the present improved state of physiological knowledge , we might be enabled to arrive at sotme more satisfactory conclusions , than had been deduced from are .y former observations .
The substances , which act as poisons when applied to Ate .
animal body are very numerous .
In the experiments , whICh i have hitherto made , I have employed vegetable poisons only .
Of these I have selected such , as are very active and certain in producing their effects , believing that , on this account , the exact nature of those effects would be more readily ascertained .
The principal objects , which I have kept in view have been to determine , on which of the vital organs the poison employed exercises its primary influence , and through what medium that organ becomes afflctcd .
I have also endeavoured to ascertain by what means the fatal consequences of some poisons may be prevented .
With some of the conclusions , which I have ventured to draw , so far as I know , w we were not before acquainted ; and others of them , tnouTg not entirely new , had not been previously estabiished by satisfactory experiments .
I shall relate first those experiments , in which poisons were applied internally , that is to the mucous membranes of the tongue or alimentary canal , and afterwards those , in which , poisons were applied to wounded surfaces .
II .
Experiments with Poisons applied to the Tongue or alimentary Canal .
Experiments with Alcohol .
When spirits are taken into the stomach , in a certain quantity , they produce that kind of delirium , which , constitutes intoxication : when taken in a larger quantity , it is well known ' that , they destroy life altogether , and that in the course of a very shiort space of time .
Intoxication is a derangement of the functions of the mind , and , as these are in some way connected wIith those of the brain , it seems probable , that it is by acting on this organ , that spirits when taken into the stomach : .
occasion death .
In order to ascertain how far this conclusionis just , I made the following experiments.* Experixment .
, I poured two drams of proof spirits down ' 'I am iiidebted to Dr. E. N. ANCROFT for his assistance in many of the experiments which I am about to detail .
Mr. W. BRAND lent me his assistance in the greater part of those which were made .
I have been further assisted by Mr. BRou GH TO , Mr. i RAw .
WLIN , ad Mr RE GATC OML .
E and by several other gentlkmen .
the oesophagus of a cat .
Instantly he struggled violently ; then lay on one side , perfectly motionless and insensible ; the breathing was laboured and stertorous , and the pulsations of the heart were very frequent .
He continued in this state for seven or eight minutes ; then began to recover ; the respirations became easier , and presently he stood up , and was able to wYalk .
Exp. 2 .
I injected an ounce and a half of proof spirits into the stomach of a large full-grown rabbit , by means of an elastic gum tube passed down the oesophagus .
TIre same symptoms took place as in the last experiment ; but the animal did not bgain to rcover from the state of in !
sensibility , until forty minutes had elapsed from the time of the injection .
Exp. 3 .
Seven drams of proof sphiits were injected , ito the stomach of a younger rabtbit .
Two miinutes aftirwards , ie evidently was ariected by the spirits , and in three minutes more he lay on one side motionless and insensible .
The pupils of the eyes were perfectly dilated ; there were occasional slight covouls1ive motions of the extremities ; the respiration was laborious , it ; vas gradualiy performed at longer and longer intervals , and at the end of an hour and firft-en miutes had entirely ceased .
Two minutes after the animal was nipparently dead , I opened into the thorax , and found the heaert acting with moderate force and frequency , circulati:g dark coloured blood .
I introduced a tube into the trachea , and produced artificial respiration by inflating the lungs , and found that by these means the action of the iheart rniglt be kept up to the natural standard , as in an animal fromwIhoin the head is removed .
I8o Exp. 4 .
I injected into the stomach of a rabbit two ounces of proof spirits .
Tj he injection 1as scarcely comlrpleted , when the animal became pert ectly insensible .
Pr ciaeily the same symptoms took plae as , in .
the r ast .
experi-.ent , ad anr .
at the , end of twen-ty-seven , mintlute:s f2ro3m the time of the injection,.the rabbit was apparently dead but on examining the thorax the heart was found still acting , as in the last experiment .
It has been -sh'ewn by iM .
BcIHAT , and the observation has been confirmned -by so experiments , which I have lately had the honour of commilunicating to this learned Society , that the brain is not directiy necessary t the action o the heart , and that , when th e fu ctions of the brain are destroyed , the heart continues to contract for some time afterw ; ards , and then ceases only in consequence of thesuspension of respiration , which is under the influence of the brain .
It would , appear , from the experiments , which I have just Ldetailed , that the symptoms produced by a large quantity of sp i ts taken into the stomach , arise entirely from distuLrance cthe functions o ?
f the brain .
The complete insensibility to external impresions ; the dilatation of pup of th pp o eyes ; and the Ioss of motion , indicate that the functisns of this organ are susended ; , respiration , which is under its influence , is ill prforimed , and at last altogether ceases ; while the heart , to the action of which the braina is not direc'tly necessary , continues to contract , circulating dark coloutred blood for some time afterwards .
There is a striking analogy -between the symptoms arising from spirits taken internally , and those produced by injuries of the brain .
Concussion of tnbrain , which may be considered_ as the slightest degree of injury , occasions a state of mind resembling intoxication , and the resemblance in some instances is so complete , that the most accurate observer cannot form a diagnosis , except from the history of the case .
Pressure on the bra in , which is a more severe injury than concussion , prtoduces loss of motion , insensibility , dilatation of the pupils ; respiration becomes laboured and stertorous , is performed at long intervais , and at last altogether ceases , and the patient dies .
It forms an interesting matter of inquiry , whether spirits when taken into the stomach produce their effects on the brain , by being absorbed into the circulation , or in consequence of the sympathy , that exists between these organs by means of the nerves .
The following circumstances lead me to conclude that they act in the last of these two ways .
1 .
In experiments where animals have been killed by the injection of spirits into the stomach , I have found this organ to bear the marks of great inflammation , but never found any preternatural appearances whatever in the brain .
, .
The effects of spirits taken into the stomach in the last experiment were so instantaneous , that it appears impossible that absorption should have taken place before they were produced .
3 .
A person who is intoxicated , frequently becomes suddenly sober after vomiting .
4 .
In the experiments , which I have just related , I mixed tincture of rhubarb with the spirits , knowing from the experiments of Mr. HOME and Mr. WILLIAM BRAND , that this , when absorbed into the circulation , was readily separated from the blood by the kidneys , and that very small quantities might be detected in the urine by the addition of potash ; but , though I never failed to find urine in the bladder , I never detected rhubarb in it .
l88 Tle including the termination of the thoracic duct in a ligature does not prevent spirits , when taken into the stomach , from producing their usual effects on the nervous system , but subsequent observations , which Mr. HoME has already conmunicated to this Society , have shown that no conclusion can be drawn from .
this experiment .
That a poison may affect a distant organ , through the medium of the nerves , without entering the circulation , is proved by the well-known circumstance of solution of the extract of Belladonna , when applied to the tunica conjunctiva of the eye , occasioning dilatation of the pupil of the same eye , though no other part of the system is affected .
It has been formerly supposed by Dr. MEAD and other physiologists , that a poison may produce death by acting on the extremities of the nerves of the stomach and intesinnes , without being absorbed into the circulation .
That it should by these means be capable of affecting the brain is not to be wondered at , when we consider the numerous and various sympathies between this organ and the alimentary canal , evidently independent of any other communication than the nerves .
Experiments with the Essential Oil of Bitter Almonds.* Experiment 5 .
One drop of the essential oil of bitter almonds was applied to the tongue of a young cat .
She was instantly seized with violent convulsions ; then lay on one side motionless , insensible , breathing in a hurried manner ; the respirations becatie laboured , took place at longer and longer intervals , and at the end of five minutes , from the application of the , poison , had entirely ceased , and the animal was apparently dead ; but , on opening the thorax , the heart was found acting regularly eighty times in a minute , circulating dark coloured blood , and it continued to act for six or seven minutes after- , wI arls.1 Exp. 6 .
I injected into the rectum of a cat half an ounce of water , with two drops of the essential oil .
In two minutes afterwards , he was affected with symptoms similar to those , which occurred in the last experiment , and at the end of five minutes , from tih , e injection of the poison , he was apparently dead .
Two minutes after apparent death , the heart wasf ound acting eighty times in a minute .
On dissection , no preternatutral appearances were found either in the internal menmbrane of the rectum , or the brain .
The symptoms produced by this poison , and " the circlumstance of the heart continuing to contract after apparent death , lead to the conclusion that it occasions death by disturbing the functions of the brain .
While engaged in these last experiments , I dipped the blunt end of a probe into the essential oil , and applied it to my tongue , meaning to taste it , and having no suspicion that so small a quantity could produce any of ' its specific effects on the nervous system ; but scarcely had I. applied it , when I experienced a ve:ry remarkable and unpleasant sensation , which I refi-erred chiefly to the epigastric region , but theexact natu-re of which I cannot describe , because I know nothing precisely similar to it .
At ; the same time there was a sense of wCealness in my limbs ) as if I had not the command of my muscles , and I thought that I was about to fall .
However , these sensations were momentary , and I experienced no inconvenience whatever afterwards .
I afterwards applied a more minute quantity of the essential oil to my tongue several times , without experiencihg from it any disagreeable effects ; but on applying a larger quantity , I was affected with the samemomentary sensations as in the former instance , and there was a recurrence of them in three or four seconds after the first attack had subsided .
From the instantaneousness , with which the effects are produced ; and from its acting more speedily when applied to the tongue , than when injected.into the intestine , though the latter presents a , better , absorbing , surface , we may conclude that , this poison acts on the brain through the medium , of the nerves , without being absorbed into the circulation .
Experiment with the c ie of the Leaves of Aconite .
Exp. 7 .
An ounce of this juice was injected into the rectum of a cat .
Three minutes afterwards he voided dwh , at-appeared to be nearly the iholeof the injection he then stood.for solme minutes perfectly motionless , with his legs drawn together ; at the end of nine minutes , from the time of the injection , he retched and vomited ; then attempted to walk , but faltered and fell at every step , , as if from giddiness .
At the end of thirteen minutes , he lay on one side insensible , motionless , except some slight convulsive motions of the limbs .
The respiration became slow and laboured ; and at , forty-seven minutes from the time of the injection , he was apparently dead .
One minute and a half afterwards , the heart was foundontracting regularly one hundred times in a minute .
185 It appears from this experiment , that the juice of aconite , when injected into the intestine , occasions death by destroying the functions of the brain .
From the analogy of other poisons , it is rendered probable that it acts on the brain through the medium of the nerves , without being absorbed into the circulation .
This opinion is confirmed by the following circumstance : if a small quantity of the leaf of aconite is chewed , it occasions a remarkable sense of numbness of the lips and gums , which does not subside for two or three hours .
Experiments with the Infusion of Tobacco .
Exp. 8 .
Four ounces of infusion of tobacco were injected into the rectum of a dog .
Four minutes afterwards he retched , but did not vomit ; he then became faint , and lay motionless on one side ; at the end of nine minutes from the time of the injection , the heart could not be felt ; he gasped for breath at long intervals ; and in another minute there was no appearance whatever of life .
I immediately laid open the cavities of the thorax and abdomen .
The heart was much distended , and had entirely ceased to contract ; there was no peristaltic motion of the intestines .
Exp. 9 .
An ounce of very strong infusion of tobacco was injected into the rectum of a cat .
Symptoms were produced similar to those , which occurred in the last experiment , and the animal died at the end of seven minutes from the time of the injection .
On opening the thorax immediately after death , the heart was found extremely distended , and to have entirely ceased acting , with the exception of a slight tremulous motion of the auricles .
186 Exp. Io .
Three ounces of infusion of tobacco were injected into the rectum of a dog .
He was affected with symptoms similar to those in the former experiments , and died at the end of ten minutes .
On opening the thorax immediately after death , I found the heart much distended , and to have entirely ceased contracting .
Exp. 11 .
Three ounces of infusion of tobacco were injected into the rectum of a dog .
Immediately there took place tremulous contractions of the voluntary muscles .
Five minutes afterwards the injection was repeated in the same quantity .
The dog then was sick , and threw up some of the infusion , with other matter , from the stomach ; he became faint , and died ten minutes after the second injection .
Immediately after respiration had ceased , I opened the thorax , and found the heart extremely distended , and without any evident contraction , except of the appendix of the right auricle , which every now and then contracted in a slight degree .
I divided the pericardium on the right side .
In consequence of the extreme distension of the heart , this could not be done without irritating the fibres with the point of the scalpel .
Immediately both .
auricles and ventricles began to contract with considerable Iorce , so as to restore the circulation .
Artificial respiration was produced , and the circulation was kept up for more than half an hour , beyond which time the experiment was not continued .
We may conclude from these experiments , that the effect of the infusion of tobacco , when injected into the intestine of a living animal , is to destroy the action of the heart , stopping the circulation and producing syncope .
It appeared to me that the action of the heart ceased even before the animal had .
187 ceased to respire ; and this was confirmed by another exper i meant , in which , in a dog killed by the infusion of tobacco , I found the cavities of the left side of the heart to contain scarlet blood , while in those of the right side the blood was dark coloured .
This poison therefore dii ers materially from alcohoi , the essential oil of almonds , and the juice of aconite , nwhich have no direct influence on the action of the hear The influ sion of tobacco renders the heart insensible to the stimthulus of *the blood , but it does notaltogether destroy the power of muscular contraction , since the heart resumed its action in onr instance on the division of the pericardium , and I have found that the voluntary muscles of an animal killed by thispoison , are as readily stimulated to contract by the influence of the VOLTAIC battery , as if it had , been killed in any other manner .
At the samee time , however , that the infusion of tobacco de stroys the action-:of the .
heart , it appears to destroy also the functions of the brain , since these did not return in the last experiment ; although the circulation was restored , nd kep up by artificial respiration .
Since there ; is no direct comm unication " betve the intestinal canal ' and the heart Iw was at first induced to suppose that the latter becomes afficted in consequence of the intfLsion being conveyed into the:blood by absorption .
Some crcu.m stances in the lorowing exeriment ave since ld e to doubt whether this is the case .
Exp. 1t2 .
Ian a do'wU , hose head wasrremoved , I ket up the circulation by means of artificial respiration , in the manner:already described in the accolunt of some experiments , which *I lately communicated to this Society .
I then injected , into the stomach aand intestines.ninle ounces of infision of tobacco , At the time of the injection , the body of the animal lay perfectly quiet and motionless on the table ; the heart acted regularly one hundred times in a minute .
Ten minutes afterwards the pulse rose to one hundred and forty in a minute ; the peristaltic motion of the intestines was imuch increased , and the voluntary mnscles in every part of the body were thrown into repeated and violent spasmodic action .
The joints of the extremities were alternately bent and extended ; the muscles of the spine , abdomen , and tail alternately relaxed and contracted , so as to turLn the whole animal from one side to tne other .
I have observed , in other instances , spasmodic actions of the muscles , where the circulation was kept up by artificial respiration , after the removal of the head , but not at all to be compared , either in streag th or frequency , with those , which toodk place onthis occasion .
I made pres sure on the abdolinal aorta for more than a minute , so as to obstruct the circulation of the blood in the lower extremities ; but the muscular contractions were not lessenedI in consequence .
Half an hour after the injection of the infusion , the artificial respiration was discontinued .
IThe heart continued to act , circulating dark coloured blood ; the muscular colntractions continued , but gradually diminished in strength and frequency .
I ted a ligature round the vessels at the base of the heart , so as to stop the circulation , nevertheless tche miusicular contrmac.tions still cOntinuQ d , though less frequent and forcible taln be/ ore , and some minutes elapsed before they entirely ceased .
In this experiment , the disposition to cnttraction in ti-e i2muscles was very much increased , instead of bciFg dininished , as in those just related .
If the infusion Cof toacco infl , uences ite heart from being absorbed into the bloo , , and thuis comi ) Ig ADCCCXI .
Bb 189 into actual contact with its fibres , there is no evident reason why , the removal of the brain , and the employment of artificial respiration , should occasion so material a difference in its effects .
If the contractions of the voluntary muscles had depended on the infusion circulating with the blood , it is reatsonable to suppose that the pressure on the aorta would have occasioned some diminution of them , and that the complete obstruction of the circulation would have caused them to cease altogether .
From these considerations , I am induced , on the whole , to believe that the infusion of tobacco , when injected into the intestines , influences the heart through the medium of the nervous system ; but I have not been able to devise any experiment , by which the truth or fallacy of this opinion might be put beyond the reach of doubt .
It appears remarkable , that the brain and nervous system , although not necessary to the action of the heart , should , when under the influence of the infusion of tobacco , be capable of influencing this organ so as to stop its action ; but this is analogous to what we see occur in consequence of violent emotions of the mind .
Those states of the nervous system , which accompany the passions of joy , fear , or anger , when existing in a moderate degree , render the heart more sensible to the stimulus of the blood , and increase the frequency of its contractions ; while , when the same passions exist in a greater degree , the heart is rendered altogether insensible to the stimulus of the blood , and syncope ensues .
igo Experiments with the Empyreumatic Oil of Tobacco.* Exp. 13 .
Less than a drop of this oil was applied to the tongue of a young cat .
Instantly violent convulsions took place in all the muscles , and the respirations became very frequent .
In five minutes after the application , she lay on one side insensible , with slight spasmodic actions of the musclesAt the end of eleven minutes , she retched , but did not vomit .
In a quarter of an hour , she appeared to be recovering .
I repeated the application of the poison , and she was again seized with violent convulsions , and became insensible , breathing at long intervals , and in two minutes from the second application respiration had entirely ceased , and she was apparently dead .
On opening the thorax , I found the heart acting with regularity and strength , circulating dark-coloured blood .
I introduced a tube into the trachea , and produced artificial respiration ; the contractions of the heart became augmented in force and frequency , and there was no evident diminution in six or seven minutes , during which the artificial respiration was continued .
On dissection , nothing remarkable was found in the appearance of the tongue or brain .
The symptoms and mode of death , in this experiment , did not essentially differ from those produced by the essential oil of almonds .
I was surprised to find the effects of the empyreumatic oil so entirely different from those of the infusion of tobacco .
Supposing that this difference might arise from the poison being more concentrated in the oil than in the infusion , I made the following experiments .
Exp. 14 .
A drop of the oil of tobacco was suspended in an ounce and a half of water by means of mucilage of gumn arabic , and the whole was injected into the rectum of a dog .
In two minutes afterwards he became faint , retched , but did not vomit , He appeared to be recovering from this state , and in twentyfive minutes after the first injection , it was repeated in the same quantity .
He was then seized with symptoms similar to those in the last experiment , and in two minutes and a half he was appareintly dead .
Two minutes after apparent death , on the thorax being opened into , the heart was found acting , regularly one hundred times in a minute , and it continued acting for several minutes .
Exp. 15 .
A drop of the empyreunatic oil of tobacco with an ounce of water was injected into the rectum of a cat .
The symptoms produced were in essential circumstances similar to those , which occurred in the last experiment .
The animal was apparently dead in five minutes after the injection , and the heart continued to contract for several minutes afterwards .
We may conclude from these experiments , that the empyreumatic oil of tobacco , whether applied to the tong , ie , or injected into the intestine , does not stop the action of the heaIrt and induce syncope , like the infusion of tobacco ; but that it occasions death by destroying the functions of the brain , without directly acting on the circulation .
In other words , its effects are similar to those of alcohol , the juice of aconite , and the essential oil of almonds .
III .
Experiments with Poisons applied to wounded Surfaces .
Experiments with the Essential Oil of Almonds .
Exp. 1 .
I made an incision in the thigh of a rabbit , and introduced two drops of essential oil between the skin and the muscles .
In four minutes after the application , he was seized with violent convuisions , and became insensible , and in two minutes more he was apparently dead ; but the aeart was felt through the ribs acting one hundred and twec : .
tie tires in a minute , and it continued acting for several minutes .
There were no other appearances in the limb , than would have resulted from an ordinary wound .
Exp. 17 .
Two drops of the essential oil of almonds were introduced into a wound in the side of a mouse .
Tvwo miniutes afterwards he was anfected with symptoms sitmilar to those which occurred in the last experiment , and in two minutes more he was apparently dead , but the heart continued to contract for some minutes afterwards .
From the experiments , which I have jutst related , and fronrm others which it appears unnecessary to detail , as the general results were the same , I have learned that where the essential oil of almonds is applied to a wound , its effects are not so instantaneous as when it is applied to the tongue ; otherwise there is no difference in its effects in whatever manner it is applied .
Experiment wzith the jzice of the Leaves of Aconite .
Exp. 18 .
I made a wound in the side of a young rabbit , and introduced , between the skin and muscles , about twenty 193 drops of the juice of aconite .
Twenty-three minutes afterwards he was affected with symptoms in all essential respects similar to those , which occurred in an experiment already related , where the juice was injected into the rectum , and at the end of forty-seven minutes from the application of the poison , he was apparently dead .
Two minutes after apparent death , the heart was found contracting , but very feebly .
Experiments with the Woorara.* Exp. 19 .
A small quantity of the woorara in powder was applied to a wound in the side of a Guinea pig .
Ten minutes afterwards the animal was unable to walk ; then he became quite motionless , except some slight occasional convulsions .
He gradually became insensible , the respirations were laboured , and at the end of fourteen minutes from the application of the poison , the respiration had entirely ceased , and he was apparently dead ; but on opening the thorax , the heart was found acting seventy times in a minute , circulating dark coloured blood , and it continued to contract for several minutes afterwards .
On dissection no preternatural appearances were observed in the brain ; nor was there any other appearance in the limb than would have arisen from an ordinary wound .
Exp. 20 .
I made a wound in the side of a Guinea pig , and introduced into it about two grains of the woorara in powder .
At the end of twenty-five minutes , symptoms took place very similar to those , which occurred in the last experiment , and in thirteen minutes more the animal was apparently dead ; but the heart continued to contract one hundred and eight times in a minute , and by means of artificial respiration the circulation was kept up for more than twenty minutes .
The results of other experiments , which I have made with the woorara , were similar to those just described .
The heart continued to act after apparent death , and the circulation might be kept up by means of artificial respiration .
It is evident that this poison acts in some way or another on the brain , and that the cessation of the functions of this organ is the immediate cause of death .
I found in these experiments , that the best mode of applying the woorara is when it is dissolved in water to the consistence of a thin paste .
I first made the wound , and then smeared the poison over it with the end of the scalpel .
I found that the animal was more speedily and certainly affected , if there was some hemorrhage , unless the haemorrhage was very copious , when it produced an opposite effect , by washing the poison away from the wound .
When the poison was applied in large quantity , it sometimes began to act in six or seven minutes .
Never more than half an hour elapsed from the time of the poison being inserted , to that of the animal being affected , except in one instance , where a ligature was applied on the limb , which will be mentioned afterwards , The woorara , which I employed , had been preserved for some years , which will account for its having been less active , than it has been described to be by those , who had witnessed its effects when in a recent state .
195 Experiments with the Upas Antiar.* Exp. 1 .
About two grains of this poison were made into a thin paste with water , and inserted into a wound in the thigh of a dog .
Twelve minutes afterwards he became languid ; at the end of fifteen minutes , the heart was found to beat very irregularly , and with frequent intermissions ; after this , he had a slight rigor .
At the end of twenty minutes the heart beat very feebly and irregularly ; he was languid ; was sick and vomited ; but the respirations were as frequent and as full as under natural circumstances , and he was perfectly sensible .
At the e nd of twenty minutes , he suddenly fell on one side , and was apparently dead .
immediately opened into the thorax , and found the heart distended with blood in a very remarkable degree , and to have entirely ceased contracting .
There was one distinct and full inspiration afzer I had begun making the incision into the thorax .
The cavities of the left side of the heart contained scarlet blood , and those of the right side contained dark coloured blood , as in a living animal , Exp. s , A small quantity of the upas antiar , prepared as before , was inserted into a wound in the thigh of a young cat .
She appeasred languid in two minutes after the poison was inserted. .
The symptoms , which took place did not essentially diffrer fro tho se which occurred in the last experiment , except that there were some e conv ulsive iotions of the limbs .
: We are-iformed , that the island of Java produces two powerful vegetable poisons , to oie of which the natives give the namte of Upas tieurt , and to the other that of Ipas antiar .
I was suppied with a quantity of the latter through the kindness of Mr. MARSDeN , who had some of it in his possession .
I96 f At eight minutes after the poison was inserted , she lay on one side , motionless and insensible , the heart could not be felt , but the respiration had not entirely ceased .
On opening into the thorax , I found the heart to have ceased contracting .
It was much distended with blood : and the blood in the cavities of the left side was of a scarlet colour .
There were two full inspirations after the incision of the thorax was begun .
On irritating the heart with the point of the scalpel , slight contractions took place in the fibres of the appendices of the auricles , but none in any other part .
Exp. 23 .
The experiment was repeated on a rabbit .
The symptoms produced were similar to those in the last experiment ; but the animal did not vomit , and the convulsive motions were in a less degree : he died eleven minutes after the poison was inserted .
On opening the chest , the heart was found to have entirely ceased contracting ; it was much distended with blood ; : and the blood in the cavities of the left side was of a scarlet colour .
Oin irritating the heart with the point of the scalpel , the ventricles contracted , but not suffi .
ciently to restore the circulation , Exp. 24 .
About a grain of the upas antiar was inserted into : a wound in the side of rabbit , He was affected with symptomsn similar to those before described , and died in ten minutes after ' the poison was applied. .
On opening the thorax immediately after death , the heart was found to have ceased contracting , and the blood in the cavities of the left side was of a scarlet colour .
It appears from these experiments , that the upas antiar , whenu inserted into a wound , produces death ( as infusion of tobacco does when injected into the intestine ) by rendering the heart , 'IDCCCXTI , C c insensible to the stimulus of the blood , and stopping the circulation .
The heart beats feebly and irregularly before either the functions of the mind , or the respiration appear to be affected .
Respiration is performed even after the circulation has ceased ; and the left side of the heart is found after death to contain scarlet blood , which never can be the case , where the cause of death is the cessation of the functions of the brain or lungs .
The convulsions , which occur when the circulation has nearly ceased , probably arise from the dirninution of the supply of blood to the brain , resembling those , which take place in a person , who is dying from hamorrhage .
There remains an interesting subject of inquiry , " through what medium do poisons influence the brain when applied to wounds ?
" That poisons applied in this manner do not produce their effects precisely in the same way as poisons taken internally , is render d probable by this circumstance ; that , some poisons , which are very powerful when applied to wounds even in small quantities , are either altogether inefficient when taken internally , or require to be given in very large quantities , in order to produce their effect , and vice versa .
A poison applied to a wounded surface may be supposed to act on the brain in one of three ways , i. By means of the nerves , like poisons taken internally .
o. By passing into the circulation through the absorbent vessels .
S. By passing directly into the circulation through the divided veins .
Exp. S5 .
In order to ascertain whether the woorara acts through the medium of the nerves , I exposed the axilla of a rabbit , and divided the spinal nerves supplying the upper 198 extremity , just before they unite to form the axillary plexus , The operation was performed with the greatest care .
I not only divided every nervous filament , however small , which I could detect , but every portion of cellular membrane in the axilla , so that the artery and vein were left entirely insulated .
I then made two wounds in the fore-arm , and inserted into them some of the woorara formed into a paste .
Fourteen minutes after the poison was applied , the hind legs became paralytic , and in ten minutes more he died , with symptoms precisely similar to those , which took place in the former experiments , and the heart continued to act after apparent death .
On dissection , the nerves of the upper extremity were particularly examined , but not the smallest filament could be found undivided .
I made the following experiment to ascertain whether the woorara passes into the circulation through the absorbent vessels .
Exp. 62 .
I tied a ligature round the thoracic duct of a dog , just before it perforates the angle of the left s ubclavian and jugular veinas .
I then made t wo ounds in the left hind Ieg , and ilnroduced so me of the woorara in pd er into them .
In less than a quarter of an hour he became afi`ected with the usual symptoms , and died in a few minutes aft-erwards .
After death , I dissected the thoracic du-ct vwih reat care. .
I found it to have been perfectly secured by the ligatutre .
It was very much distended with chyle , and about two inches : below its termiiation its coats had given way , and chyle was , extravasated into the cellular membbran e. The lymphatic vessels in the left axilla were distended in a very remarkable degree , and on dividing them : , not less than a dram of lympI issued from the divided ends .
Cc.~ 199 Since neither the division of the nerves ; nor the obstruction of the thoracic duct interfere in the slightest degree with the effects of the woorara , there is presumptive evidence that it acts on the brain by entering the circulation through the divided veins .
I endeavoured to ascertain , by experiment , whether this is really the case .
To apply ligatures to the large vessels of a limb only would evidently lead to no satisfactory conclusion , since the anastomosing vessels might still carry on the circulation .
The only way , which I could devise of performing the experiment , was to include all the vessels , small as well as large , in a ligature .
Exp. 27 .
In order to make the experiment more satisiactorily , I exposed the sciatic nerve of a rabbit in the upper and posterior part of the thigh , and passed under it a tape h-alf an inch wide , I then imade a wound in the leg , and having introduced into it some of the woo arar mixed with water , I tied the tape moderately tight on the fore-part of the thigh .
Thus I interrupted the communication between the wounds and the other parts of the body , by means of the vessels , while that by means of the nerve still remained .
After the ligature was tightened , I applied the woorara a second time , in another part of the leg .
The rabbit was not at all affected , and at the end of an hour I removed the ligature .
Being engaged in some other pursuit , I did not watch the animal so closely as I should otherwise have done ; but twenty minutes after the ligature was removed , I found him lying on one side , motionless and insensible , evidently under the influence of the poison , but the symptoms were less violent than in most instances , and after lying in this state he recovered , and the limb became perfectly warm , and he regained the power of using it .
ol0 Exp. 28 .
I repeated the last experiment with this differ.ence , that after having applied the poison , I made the ligature:as tight as I could draw it .
I renmoved the ligature at the end of an hour and twenty minutes , but the animal was not at all affected either before or after the removal of the ligature , and on the following day he had recovered the use of the limb .
Exp. 29 .
I repeated the expeoriment a third time , drawing the ligature very tight .
At the end of forty-five minutes , the animal continued perfectly well , and the ligature was removed .
I wattched him for three quarters of an hour afterwards , but there were no symptoms of his being affected by the poison .
On the following day the rabbit died , but this I attribute to the injury done to the limb and sciatic nerve by the ligature , as there was the appearance of inflammlaion in the parts in the neighbourrhood of the ligature .
These three experiments were made with the greatest care , From the mode , in which the poison was applied , from the quantity employed , and from my prior experience , I should have entertained not the smallest doubt of the poison taking effect in every instance in less than twenty minutes , if no ligature had been applied .
In two of the three , the quantity of woorara was more than had been used in any former experiments .
I have not judged it necessary to make any more experiments , with the ligature on the limb , because the numerous experiments of the Abbe FONTANA on the ticunas , coincide in their results , with those , which have just been detailed , and fully establish the efficacy of the ligature , in preventing the action of the poison .
It is not to be wondered at , that the ligature should sometimes fail in its effects , since these must evidently depend on the degree , in which the circulation " is : obstructed , and on the length of time during which the ob-struction is continued .
There can be little doubt that the woorara affcts the brain , by passing into the circulation through the divided vessels .
It : is probable that it does not produce its efccts , until it enters the substance of the brain , along with the blood , in which it is , dissolved ; nor will , the experiments of the Abb ` FONTANA , in which he found the ticunas produce almost instant death when .
inijected into the jugular vein of a rabbit , be found to militate against this conclusion , xvwen we consider how short is the distance , which , in so small an animal , the blood has to pass from thejugular vein to the carotid artery , and the great rapidity of the circulation ; since in a rabbit under the influenceof terror , during such ain experiment , the heartcannot be supposed to at so so as three times in a csecond I have made no experiments to ascertain th-rough what nedium other poisons whren appWied to wounds affct Ihe ia organs , butt from analogy we nay suppose that they enter the eircuation tlrough the dvided blood.vessels , .
IV .
The facts already related led me to conclude that alcohoI .
the essential oil of almonds , the vice of aconite , the oil of tobacco , and the woorara , occasion : death simply by destroying the functions of the brain. .
The folowing experiment appears fully to establish the truth of this conclusion .
Exp. 3o .
The temperature of the room being 580 of FAHIRENHEIT'S thermometer , I made two wounds in the side of a rabb8it , and applied to them some of the woorara in the form : of paste .
In seven minutes after the application , the hind legs were paralysed , and in fifteen minutes respiration had ceased , :and he was apparently dead .
Two minutes afterwards the heart was still beating , and a tube was introduced through an opening into the trachea , by means of which the lungs were inflated .
The artificial respiration was made regularly about thirty-six times in a minute .
At first , the heart contracted one hundred times in a minute .
At the end of forty minutes , the pulse had risen to one hundred and twenty in a minute .
At the end of an hour , it had risen to one hundred and forty in a minute .
At the end of an hour and twenty-three minutes , the pulse had fallen to a hundred , and the artificial respiration was discon tinued .
At the comniencemenct of the experiment , the ball of a thermometer being placed in the rectum , the quicksilver rose to one hundred degrees ; at the close of the experiment it had fallen to eighty-eight and a half .
During the continuance of the artificial respiration , the blood ain the femoral artery was of a florid red , and that in the femoral vein of a dark colour , as usual .
It has been observed by M. BICHAT , that the immediate cause of death , when it takes place suddenly , must be the cessation of the functions of the heart , the brain , or the lungs .
This observation may be extended to death under all circumstances .
O The stomach , the liver , the kidneys , and many other organs are necessary to life , but their constant action is not necessary ; and the cessation of their functions cannot there:xor e the eim ediate cause of death .
As in this case the action 203 of the heart had ' never ceased ; as the circulation of the blood ' vIas kept up by artificial respiration for more than an hout and twenty minutes after the poison had produced its full effects ; and as during this time the usual changes in thecolour of the blood took place in the lungs ; it is evident that the functions of the heart and lungs were unimpaired : but that these of the brain had ceased , is ' proved , by the animal having continued in a state of complete insensibility , and by this circumstance , that animal heat , to the generation of which I have formerly shown the influence of the brain to be necessary , was not generated .
Having learned that the circulation might be kept up by artificial respiration for a considerable time after the woorara had produced its full effects , it occurred to -me that in an animal under the influence of this or of anyy other poison thia acts in a similar manner , by continuing the artificial respiration for a sufficient length of time after natural respiration ; had ceased , the brainmight recover from the impression , which the poison had produced , and the anim.al m-ight be restored to 'life .
In ' the last experiment , the animal gave no sign of returning sensibility ; but it is to be observed , 1 .
That the quantity of the poison employed was very large .
2 .
That there was a great loss of animal heat , in consequence of the temperature of the room being much below the natural temperature of the animal , which could not therefore be considered under such favourable circumstances as to recovery , as if it had been kept in a higheer temperature .
, .
That the circuiation was still vigorous when I left off inflating the luntgs , and therefore it cannot be known what would have been the resatu , if the artificial respiration had been longer continued .
ELp .
30 .
A wound was made in the side of a rabbit , and one drop of the essential oil of alrmonds was inserted into it , and immediately the animal was placed in a temperature of 9go .
In two minutes he was under the influence of the poison .
The usual symptoms took place , and in three minutes more respiration had ceased , and he lay apparently dead , but the heart was still felt beating through the ribs .
A tube was then introduced into one of the nostrils , and the lungs were inflated about thirty-five times in a minute .
Six minutes after the commencement of artificial respiration , he moved his head and legs , and made an effort to breathe .
He then was seized with convulsions , and again lay motionless , but continued to make occasional effSrts to breathe .
Sixteen minutes after its commencement , the artificial respiration was discontinued .
He now breathed spontaneously seventy times in a minute , and moved his head and extremities .
After this , he occasionally rose , and attempted to walk .
In the intervals , he continued in a dozing state ; but from this he gradually recovered .
In less than two hours he appeared perfectly well , and he continued well on the following day .
The inflating the lungs has been frequently recommended in cases of suffocation , whhere the cause of death is the cessation of the functions of the lungs : as far as I know , it has ; not been before proposed in those cases , in which the cause of death is the cessation of the functions of the brain.* It is probable that this method of treatment might be employed with advantage for the recovery of persons labouring under the effects of opium , and many other poisons .
V. The experiments , which have been detailed lead to the following conclusions .
i. Alcohol , the essential oil of almonds , the juice of aco .
nite , the empyreumatic oil of tobacco , and the woorara , act as poisons by simply destroying the functions of the brain ; universal death taking place , because respiration is under the influence of the brain , and ceases when its functiios are destroyed .
2- .
The infusion of tobacco when injected into the intestine , and the upas antiar when applied to a wound , have the power of rendering the heart insensible to the stimulus of the blood , thus stopping the circulation ; in other words , they occasion syncope .
T. There is reason to believe that the poisons , which in these experiments were applied internally , produce their effects through the medium of the nerves without being absorbed into the circulation .
4 .
When the woorara is applied to a wound , it produces its effects on the brain , by entering the circulation through the divided blood-vessels , and , from analogy , we may conclude that other poisons , when applied to wounds , operate in a similar manner .
5 .
When an animal is apparently dead from the influence of a poison , which acts by simply destroying the functions of at Paris by M. DELILE , by which I find that he had employed artificial respiration for the purpose of recovering animals , which were under the influence of this poison , with success .
M. DELILE describes the Upas Tieute as causing death , by occasioning repeated and long continued contractions of the muscles of respiration , on which it acts through the medium of the spinal marrow , without destroying the fuan tions of the brain .
o6 the brain , it may , in some instances , at least , be made to recover , if respiration is artificially produced , and continued for a certain length of time .
From analogy we might draw some conclusions respecting the mode in which some other vegetable poisons produce their effects on the animal system ; but I forbear to enter into any speculative inquiries ; as it is my wish , in the present communication , to record such facts only , as appear to be established by actual experiment .
Addition to the Croonian Lecture for the Tear i81o .
In the experiments formerly detailed , where the circulation was maintained by means of artificial respiration after the head was removed , I observed that the blood , in its passage through the llngs , was altered from a dark to a scarlet colour , and hence I was led to conclude that the action of the air produced in it changes analogous to those , which occur under ordinary circumstances .
I have lately , with the assistance of my friend Mr. W. BRAND , m ade the following experiment , which appears to confirAm the truth of this conclusion .
An ' elastic gum bottle , having a tube and stop-cock connected with it , was filled with about a pint of oxygen gas .
The spinal marrow was divided in the neck of a young rabbit , and the blood-vessels having been secured , the head was removed , and the circulation was maihtained by inflating the lungs with atmospheric air for five minutes , at the end of which time the tube of the gum bottle was inserted into the trachea , and carefully secured by a ligature , so that no air might escape .
By making pressure on the gum bottle , the 2c7 4Addition to the Crooniza Lecture .
gas was made to pass and repass into and from the lungs about thirty times in a minute .
At first , the heart acted one hundred and twenty times in a minute , with regularity and strength ; the thermometer , in the rectum , rose to 1oo ? .
At the end of an hour , the heart acted as frequently as before , but more feebly ; the blood in the arteries was very little more florid than that in the veins ; the thermometer in the rectum had fallen to 93 ? .
The gum bottle was then removed .
On causing a stream of the gas , which it contained , to pass through lime-water , the presence of carbonic acid was indicated by the liquid being instantly rendered turbid .
The proportion of carbonic acid was not accurately determined ; but it appeared to form about one-half of the quantity of gas in the bottle .
B. C. BRODIE .
ERRATA .
Page 39 , line 13 , for artery read ureter .
47 , last line of table 4th col.for 91 read 9giss-_- , vs w -.-___ From the Press oj W. BULMER &amp; Co. Cleveland-Row , St.:ames 's , London .
o208

