" Experiments on the influence of Magnetism on Polarized Light .
" By Professor Carlo Matteucci .
Communicated by Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , V.P.R.S. &amp;c. The object of this notice is to communicate some recent experiments on diamagnetism , and particularly on the influence of magnetism on polarized light .
The following extracts are in the words of the author : " The apparatus I employed in these experiments was an electromagnetic apparatus invented by M.Rumkorf , and described by M.Biot at a meeting of the Academy of Sciences of Paris , and consisting of a powerful electro-magnet , of which the soft iron cylinder is traversed by a hole in the direction of the length of the axis , through which hole the ray of polarized light is made to pass ; and the voltaic current which I employed on this occasion was that of seven pair of Grove 's construction .
I made my first experiment with a piece of heavy glass , which I received from Faraday himself .
In order to assure myself of the exact amount of rotation induced by magnetic action , I caused the ray of light , before it reached the heavy glass , to pass through the system invented by M. Soleil , consisting of two equal plates of perpendicular quartz , placed side by side ; .
the one turning to the right , the other to the left .
I ascertained , first of all , the rotation produced by making the current pass sometimes in one direction , and sometimes in the other ; the two rotations , one to the right , the other to the left , thus produced , were exactly the same .
Then I compressed slightly the middle part of the piece of heavy glass , in the same manner as one compresses pieces of glass .
I was then obliged to turn the eyepiece in a certain direction in order to restore the image to its first condition ; in my experiments I always had to turn it , after compression , towards the right .
I next made the current pass , first in one direction , then in the other .
The general facts which I have observed constantly and without exception are the following:-The rotation produced by the magnet on the compressed piece of heavy glass is not the same to the right as it is to the left : the rotation produced by the magnet is considerably greater in the direction of the rotation produced by compression than it is in the contrary direction : the rotation produced by the magnet on the compressed heavy glass , and in the direction of the rotation produced by the compression , is greater than that produced by the same magnet on glass which has not been compressed , and the rotation in the contrary direction is less .
The following are the numerical results .
" In one experiment I obtained on a piece of heavy glass not compressed , 3 ?
of rotation to the right or to the left , according to the direction of the current : on slightly compressing the glass , I had to turn to the right the eyepiece to 4 ?
, 5 ?
, and even to 8 ?
in order to restore the image to its first condition .
In closing the circuit , the rotation produced in the same direction as that due to compression was 3- ?
or 4 ?
, while the rotation produced in the contrary direction was from 2 ?
to 1-0 .
On ceasing to compress the glass , I obtained the same phenomena as I had observed before the compression .
" I have made in the same manner experiments with a piece of flint..glass , which produced a rotation of 2 ?
under the influence of the magnet .
When I applied the same magnet to pieces of compressed flint-glass , I could not discover the slightest sensible rotation in whatever direction I might make the current pass .
Plates of quartz cut perpendicularly or parallel to the axis , and compressed in various directions , did not acquire any rotatory power under the influence of the magnet .
I think that the peculiarity exhibited by compressed heavy glass is of some interest , in as far as it appears likely to lead to a more satisfactory explanation of the want of rotatory power communicated by magnetism in crystalline bodies .
" I shall conclude by communicating the negative results of some experiments I attempted with a view to discover the action of diamagnetic bodies on each other , and of magnetism on gaseous bodies .
I suspended small needles of bismuth between the poles of a very powerful electro-magnet , and with a good chronometer I counted the number of their oscillations , either alone or in the vicinity of pieces of bismuth of various shapes and sizes .
I repeated these experiments with all possible care , avoiding the slightest current of air , reckoning the smallest oscillations , and those of the same extent in the different cases .
I never obtained any differences beyond half a second , which existed equally whether the pieces of bismuth were near or not .
The experiment therefore does not serve to show the action of diamagnetic bodies on each other ; an action which naturally ought to exist , but which perhaps is overpowered by the stronger action of the magnet .
" I afterwards counted the oscillations of a small needle of bismuth , which I succeeded in suspending by a silk fibre ( fil de cocon ) inside of a glass ball blown at the top of a barometer-tube .
The ball was placed between the poles of my etectro-magnet .
In this experiment the bismuth needle was held sometimes in a nearly perfect vacuum , at others in atmospheric air .
The number of oscillations in both cases was exactly the same .
" We must therefore give up the idea of explaining diamagnetic phmnomena by a magnetic action , which would be stronger upon the air than upon bismuth .
"

