IV .
" Results of Researches on the Electric Function of the Torpedo .
" By Professor CARLO AIATTEUCCI of Pisa .
In a Letter to Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received August 3 , 1860 .
( Extract .
) " It has hitherto been believed that the action of the electric organ of the Torpedo was momeintary only ; -that it becomes charged under the influence of nervouts action and discharged immediately that action ceases , somewhat like soft ironi under the ilnfluence of an electric current .
Such , however , is not the real state of the case .
The electric organ is always charged .
It may be conclusively showni by experiment that the action of that organ never ceases , and that round the body of a Torpedo , and probably of every other electric fish , there is a continual circulation of electricity in the liquid medium in which the animal is immersed .
In fact , when the electric organi , or even a fragment of it , is removed from the living fish and placed between the ends of a galvanometer , the needle remains deflected at a constant angle for twenty or thirty hours , or even longer .
" I must here explain that in electro-physiological experiments it is highly advantageous to employ , as extremities of the galvaniometer , plates of amalgamated zinc immersed in a neutral saturated solution of sulphate of zinc .
This arrangement , which can be worked with the greatest facility , gives a perfectly homogeneous circuit , leaving the needle at zero in an instrument of 24,000 coils ; the liquid in contact with the animal .
part experimented on has the greatest possible conductibility while it does not act chemically on the tissue , and the apparatus is entirely free from secondary polarity .
" To return to the Torpedo .
The electric organ , or a portion of it , detached from the fish and kept at the temperature of freezing , preserves its electromotive properties for four , six , or even eight days ; and an organ which has been kept for twenty-four hours in a vessel surrounded with a frigorific mixture of ice and salt , is found to possess an electromotive power as great as that of the organ recently detached from the living fish .
Thus the electric organ retainis its functional activity long after both muscular and nervous excitability have been extinguished .
" What then is the action of the nerves on this apparatus ?
Hlere again experiment affords a very distiniet and conclusive answer .
Detach the organ of a live torpedo and cut it into two equal portions , in such a way as to leave each half in connexion with one of the large nervous trunks ; place the two halves on a plate of gutta percha , with electric couples opposed ; that is , with the similar surfaces ( say the dorsal ) in contact ; and connect the two free ( ventral ) surfaces with the extremities of the galvanometer .
There will usually be no deflection of the needle , or , at most , a very slight effect which will 2 it soon disappear .
Now , after having opened the circuit of the galvanometer , irritate the nerve of one of the segments , by pinching , by the interrupted electric current , or in any other way ; or prick the piece itself with a lneedle .
The portion of organ thuLs stimLulated will give several discharges in succession , and a rheoscopic frog 's limib with its nerve applied to the part will each time be thrown into violent convulsions .
If , after this , the galvanometer be applied as before , there will be a very strong deflection in a direction answering to the segment stimulated .
This deviation endures for a short time , but gradually becomes less , so that in a few minutes the effect of the two segments is equal .
Stimulationi now of the other seg , meant will in like maniner render its electricity predominant .
These alterlnations may be repeated several times , but naturally the effect becomes less and less marked .
" Thus the electromotive apparatus becomes charged and acts independently of the influence of the nerves , but that influence renews and renders persistent the activity of the apparatus .
We know , moreover , that the discharge , which is only a state of temporary increased activity of the organ , is brought on by an act of the will in the live animal , or by the excitation of the nerves of the organ .
" I shall not enter now into further details respecting my recent experiments on the Torpedo , but I venture to thinkl that we have really made a step towards clearing up the theory of the animal electromotive apparatus .
The organ of the Torpedo does not , under the influence of the nerves , act as an induction apparattus ; the operation seems more analogous to that of a 'secondary pile , ' created , through the influence of the nerves , in each constituent cell of the organ .
" The case is very different in muscular action , the changes occurring in which are better understood now that we know the phenomena of inuscular respiration .
I do not here refer to the variation of the muscular current which takes place at the momenit of contraction .
In that case it would appear from experiment , as I lately showed , that there are indications of a current in an opposite direction ; but the conditions of the animal structure in action are so complex that no inference can be drawn as to the intimate nature of the phenomenon .
It is otherwise , however , in comparing muscles which have been left at rest with muscles which have been fatigued by repeated contractioni .
Being still engaoed in the investigation of this matter , I shall contenit myself now with mentioning one result of my inquiry , which I consider as well established ; the result , in fact , of performing on muscles the same kind of experiment as the one above.described on the organ of the Torpedo .
The experiment is as follows:-IHaving selected a series of muscles , entire or divided , which have been proved ( by my method of opposed muscular piles ) to be equal in electromotive power ; subject a certain number of them to repeated stimulation , and then , by means of the method of opposed couples , compare the muscles which have been exercised with those which have been left at rest , and it will be found that the latter will manifest a much greater degree of electromotive power than the former .
The nervous excitation , which causes muscular contraction , developes heat , generates mechanical force and consumes chemical affinity ; and as the electromotive apparatus of muscle operates through means of that affinity , it must get weakened , like a pile in which the acid has become weaker .
In the Torpedo , on the other hand , there is neither heat nor mechanical force produced , and the electromotive apparatus is set up again , as it were , through the influence of the nerves , after the manner of a secondary pile .
"

