An Analysis of the magnetical Pyrites ; with Remarks on some of the other Sulphurets of Iron .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 17 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 315 .
] The substance which is the subject of this paper was , till lately , found only in some parts of Norway and Germany ; but it now appears , from some specimens in Mr. Greville 's collection , that it is likewise to be met with in considerable quantities near the foot of Snowdon in Caernarvonshire .
The character by which this kind of sulphuret is chiefly distinguished from the other martial pyrites , is .
its magnetic property , by which , especially if it have been placed some time between magnetical bars , it will turn a needle completely round , attract and take up abundance of iron filings , and retain this addition to its original power for a considerable length of time .
After an accurate description of the external characters of this ore , Mr. Hatchett enters into a full account of the processes he instituted in order to discover its nature and component parts .
In hopes of discovering the cause of the magnetic property which is peculiar to this species , he has entered into an aiinalysis of the other kinds of martial sulphurets , not only natural , but also artificial , and has also paid particular attention to the experiments of others on this subject , particularly those of Mr. Proust , the learned Professor of Chenmistry at Madrid , who has taken considerable pains in ascertaining the constituent parts of this ore , both analytically and synthetically .
In the progress of this inquiry , a certain analogy soon presented itself , between these compounds of sulphur and iron and those of other inflammable substances , such as carbon and phosphorus , with the same metal , which suggested the idea of some experiments on the subject ; from whence various facts were deduced , not only of much curiosity , but also likely to lead to some useful purposes , as will appear hereafter .
The principal results of this laborious investigation are,1 .
That the component ingredients of the magnetical pyrites are sulphur , and iron in the metallic state , the former being to the latter in the proportion nearly of 37 to 63 .
2 .
That the chemical and other properties of this substance are very different from those of the common martial pyrites ; which , however , are likewise composed of sulphur and iron , but varying in proportion from between 52 to 54 of sulphur , and 48 to 46 of metallic iron .
Whence it appears , that the relative proportions in the composition of the magnetical pyrites , and of the mean of the common pyrites , is between 16 and 17 .
3 .
That as the magnetical pyrites agrees.in analytical results , as well as in all chemical and other properties , with that sulphuret of iron which hitherto has been only known as an artificial product , there is no doubt that it is identically the same , and that its proportions are probably subjected to a certain law , which , under certain circumstances , may be supposed to act in an almost invariable manner .
4 .
That in the formation of the common martial pyrites , there is a deviation from this law , and that sulphur becomes a predominant ingredient , variable in quantity , but which , by the present experiments , has not been found to exceed between 54 and 55 per cent. ; a proportion , however , which possibly may be surpassed in other pyrites which have not as yet been chemically examined .
5 .
That iron , when combined naturally or artificially with 36 or *37 per cent. of sulphur , is not only still capable of receiving the magnetic fluid , but it is also rendered capable of retaining it , so as to become in every respect a complete magnet .
And the same may in a great measure be inferred respecting iron which has been artificially combined with 45per cent. of sulphur .
6 .
That beyond this proportion of 45I per cent. of sulphur , ( at least in the natural common pyrites , ) all susceptibility in iron of the magnetic influence appears to be destroyed ; and although the precise maximum , which is capable of producing this effect , has not as yet been determined by actual experiment , it is certain that the limits are between.45 and 52- ; unless some alteration has taken place in the state df the sulphur or iron in the common martial pyrites , different from that which is conceived according to the present state-of chemical knowledge .
7 .
That as carbon , when combined in a certain proportion with iron ( forming steel ) , enables it to become a permanent magnet , and as a certain proportion of sulphur communicates the same quality to iron , so are the effects of phosphorus found to be ; phosphoret of iron being , in this respect , much the most powerful , at least when considered comparatively with sulphuret of iron .
8 ; and lastly .
That as carbon , sulphur , and phosphorus , produce , by their union with iron , many chemical effects , of much similarity , so do each of them , when combined with that metal in certain proportions , 'not only permit it to receive , but .
also give it the peculiar power of retaining the magnetical properties ; and thus henceforth , in addition to that carburet of iron called steel , certain sulphurets and phosphurets of iron may be regarded as bodies peculiarly susceptible of strong magnetical impregnation .
Among the observations which are subjoined to this paper , we find some remarks on the vitriolization of pyrites ; from which we collect , that , contrary to the opinion of Mr. Proust , who thought that only those pyrites in which the proportion of sulphur is very small are liable to this change , the vitriolization is not so much owing to the proportion as to the state of the sulphur in the compound ; and that this state is probably the effect of a small portion of oxygen , previously combined with a part or with the general mass of the sul-phur at the time of the original formation of the substances ; so that the state of this ingredient is tending to that of oxide .
It is , no doubt , remarkable , that the magnetical properties of the sulphuret of iron , which forms the , principal subject of this paper , should never have been adverted to by any of the writers on magnetism .
The few who observed it in the natural magnetical pyrites chose to ascribe it to particles of common magnetical iron interspersed in the ore : but from what has been stated , it is evident that this opinion must be relinquished ; since there are certain known proportions of sulphur , as well as of carbon and phosphorus , beyond which the magnetical property will not be obtained , though the proportions beyond this maximum would by no means exclude the interposition of particles of iron .
How far the combinations of magnetical sulphurets , carburets , and phosphorets may contribute towards the making artificial loadstones of greater strength than those hitherto known , is a subject recommended to the attention of future observers .

