or with both ; and that these affinities become modified , by those which prevail between the various metallic substances and gold .
Moreover , it is evident , that even the most oxidable metals have this property much diminished or checked by being united with gold , which appears so to envelope and retain their particles , as to impede the usual influence of heat , as well as the natural exertion of their affinities with the oxygen of the atmosphere .
The following experiment was therefore made , to ascertain the comparative loss caused by the volatilization , or by the oxidizement of various metallic substances , when added to gold during a given period of fusion , and under similar circumstances .
Experiment .
Ten four-inch crucibles , which had been previously made red-hot , were put into as many l -inch crucibles , which were placed in wind furnaces of similar construction , and heated as equally as possible .
Each of the small crucibles contained five ounces ten pennyweights and fourteen grains of gold , 23 car .
$3 grs. fine , which being completely melted , nine pennyweights and ten grains of the following metals were added , and mixed in the usual manner , after which , the fusion was continued in the open vessels during one hour .
The different masses , when cold , were weighed ; but , previous to this , the scoria or glass which had been formed on some of them was gently removed .
The comparative loss will appear from the following Table .
According to the foregoing Table , it appears , that fine gold , gold alloyed with silver , gold alloyed with copper , and gold alloyed with tin , did not suffer any loss during the experiment .
Moreover , that gold alloyed with lead only lost three grains , chiefly by vitrification .
That gold alloyed with iron lost lg grains , which formed scoria .
That gold alloyed with bismuth also lost 12 grains , chiefly by vitrification .
That gold alloyed with antimony lost the same quantity , partly by volatilization , and partly by vitrification .
That gold alloyed with zinc lost one pennyweight ; by volatilization .
And , That gold alloyed with arsenic , not only lost the whole quantity of alloy , but also two grains of the gold , which were carried off in consequence of the rapid volatilization of the arsenic .
LEWIS , ( Phil. Comm .
of Arts , p. 88 , ) however , asserts that " gold is more volatilized by antimony than by arsenic or zinc ; " but to produce this effect the fire must be vehement , the crucible shallow , and the air strongly impelled .
" These circumstances , according to their variations , must undoubtedly very much influence the results of such experiments ; and therefore , although the reverse was found to take place in the experiments here stated , it does not follow that certain changes should not be produced by different degrees of heat , by the figure of the vessels , and by a current of air more or less strong .
The whole of the experiments of this section tend to prove , that ( agreeably to general practice and opinion ) only two of the metals are proper for the alloy of gold coin , namely , silver and copper ; as all the others either considerably alter the colour , or diminish the ductility , of gold .
In respect to the latter quality , the different metallic substances which have been employed in the present experiments , appear to affect gold nearly in the following decreasing order .
i. Bismuth , 2 .
Lead .
These are nearly equal in effet , 3 .
Antimony .
4 .
Arsenic , 5 .
Zinc .
6 .
Cobalt .
7 .
Manganese .
8 .
Nickel .
9 .
Tin .
lo .
Iron .
i l. Platina.* 12 .
Copper .
13 .
Silvero Before I conclude this section , I must observe , that the subject of alloys has not in general been sufficiently investigated by chemists ; and I therefore should have been glad to have repeated the preceding experiments entirely in close vessels , and with many other precautions ; but , from various circumstances , I have been obliged , for the present , to content myself with what has been here related ; and , although I have not been able to do all I could have wished , I yet flatter myself that these experiments will tend to remove certain prejudices and erroneous opinions , and that they will be found to be of some utility .
SECTION II .
ON THE SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF GOLD , WHEN ALLOYED BY VARIOUS METALS .
The many difficulties which attend the making of experiments intended to ascertain the specific gravity of bodies , with any tolerable degree of precision , are sufficiently known to every one who has had practical experience ; and some of these difficulties have been ably pointed out , and avoided , by Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURGH EVELYN , Bart. F. R. S. in his valuable Paper , entitled An Account of some Endeavours to ascertain a standard of Weight and Measure .
Phil. Trans. for 1798 , p. 133 .
In fact , when we consider the inaccuracies of balances , and the effects produced by the different height of the column of water , and by the changes of temperature to which the water is exposed during the experiments , we have less reason to be surprised at the frequent variations in the results ; and , in addition to these sources of error , if we consider the different texture of bodies , and the numberless interstices of them , often unequally arranged , and which cannot at all times be penetrated by water , we may rather wonder that so much precision has been attained .
The last-mentioned obstacles to exactitude in such experiments , are peculiarly to be observed , when the specific gravity of certain substances , such as stones and ores , is to be determined ; and , although the metals , being in general more dense , are supposed to be less liable to such variations in internal texture , yet it is acknowledged , that the specific gravities of these , as stated by various authors , cannot be regarded as exact ; and indeed , from the following experiments , I think it will appear evident , that extrem~ precision and uniformity in the results , can seldom be attained or expected .
When metals are cast in a mould , they speedily become cold ; and , according to the quantity and quality of the metal , the figure and position of the mould , and the greater or less rapidity of the cooling , metals may vary in texture , and in the relative proportion and arrangement of their interstices ; and consequently the mass , in different parts , may be of unequal degrees of density .
For , a metal of an uniform quality in other respects , generally becomes most dense in the bottom of the mould , especially when a long bar of heavy metal is cast in a vertical position .
Those metals which are very ductile , may , by hammering and rolling , be brought more nearly to a certain uniform density ; for the number and capacity of the interstices , or air-bladders , in the interior of the mass , are thus more or less diminished ; and , although the brittle metals , or semimetals , as they are improperly called , cannot be thus treated , yet , when reduced to powder , or into small fragments , they expose a large surface , and consequently the error produced by interstices or cavities is much reduced.* But , neither hammering , rolling , nor pulverization , can be applied to those metallic substances , whether simple or mixed , which are neither sufficiently malleable to be rolled , nor sufficiently brittle to be reduced into powder ; and this last difficulty most frequently occurs in mixed or alloyed metals .
It is well known , that the specific gravity of an alloyed metal is seldom that which , by calculating the respective specific gravities and proportions of the different metals , would be the result ; on the contrary , the specific gravity of the alloyed mass , is frequently greater or less than it ought to be , according to calculation .
This effect has been often noticed by various authors ; and it is not requisite that I should here repeat facts already so well established ; I have , however , thought it proper to state , in the following pages , the changes in specific gravity which took place , when gold was alloyed with different proportions of various netals .
In the following experiments , I employed a very accurate balance , which was made for me by Mr. HAAS , and which , when loaded with iooo grains at each end , turned with -0of a grain .
The vessel containing distilled water , at 60 ?
of FAHRENHEIT , was covered with flannel , in order to avoid , as much as possible , any change of temperature produced by the circumambient air ; and every other precaution was taken , as is usual , when such experiments are to be made.* Gold alloyed with lead.* dts .
Gold 18 Lead grs. 10 14 } Gold alloyed with bismuth.t Spec. Gray .
18 , o8o .
Gold 8 10 Copper o i9 17,765 .
Lead -o 19 J Gold iSo Copper 161 17,312 .
Lead 8 Gold 18 lo Copper I 10 o 17,032 .
Lead a4 Gold 18 io Copper 1 I3{ 16,627 .
Lead -o o Gold Copper Lead i8 o1 1 1i34 o o0J 17 , o39 .
Copper o 19 examined .
Bismuth o 19 f Gold i8 o10 Copper 16 17,303 Bismuth o8f Gold 18 o Copper I 10 16,84,6 .
Bismuth o4J ( Gold i8 o10 Copper i 13 .
16,780 .
Bismuth ooJ Gold 18 1o Copper 13 17,095 .
Bismuth o o0 Je Specific gravity of the lead 11,352 .
t Specific gravity of the bismuth 9,822 .
Although the specific gravities of lead and of bismuth are so different , yet the effects which these metals produce upon the specific gravity of gold , according to their relative proportions , must appear very similar , to every one who examines the foregoing Table .
Moreover , the quality of the gold thus made standard by different proportions of lead and bismuth , corresponded with the alterations of specific gravity ; for , in the first experiments , or those in which lead in the one case and bismuth in the other formed the whole of the alloy , the gold was found to be brittle , like glass , and shewed a fine grained I fracture , which had a porcellaneous appearance ; but , in the subsequent experiments , in proportion as the specific gravity was reduced , the grain of the fracture became coarser ; and , in the ivth Experiment , the porcellaneous or earthy appearance of the fracture began to give place to a certain degree of metallic lustre , which was increased in the vth Experiment ; at the same time , the alloyed gold , in both cases , became remarkably coarsegrained and spongy .
The specific gravity was then found to be at the lowest degree ; for , in the with or last Experiment , when only a of a grain of lead , or of bismuth , was present , the grain became compact , with complete metallic lustre ; and the specific gravity was so much increased , that when lead was employed , the difference between the vth and with Experiments was 0,412 ; and , when bismuth was present , the difference was o,315 .
From these and other experiments , I am induced to believe , that , in general , the specific gravity of gold alloyed with different metals , is not only very different to what it ought to be according to calculations made on the relative proportions and specific gravity of the alloy , but that it is also subject to many variations , partly occasioned by peculiar effects produced by certain proportions of some of the metals , and partly by effects peculiar to certain compound alloys ; so that , by the proportions of certain metals , and by the combination of these with others , an immense complicated series of alterations in specific gravity are produced , which as yet do not appear to have been investigated , by those philosophers who have written concerning the specific gravity of metals .
The specific gravity of standard gold being found by the preceding experiments to be so extremely variable , according to the nature and quantity of the metals which were employed singly or conjointly as alloys , the following Table has been added , to show the comparative degrees of expansion and contraction which took place , in consequence of these combinations .
TABLE II..Bulk after t Specific Specific Bulk before combination , combinaContrac- ' gravity of Metals .
gravity .
Weight .
in grains of water , tion .
Expansion .
tion .
the mass .
grains .
Gold 19,172 442 23,0 Silver 10,474 38 363 6,68 26,78 , xo 7,927 Silver io,474 38 3,63 ~ ' Gold 19,172 442 23,05 ' Silver 10,474 i9 1,81 27,00 27,67,67 17344 Copper 8,895 ' 19 2 , 14 Gold 19,172 442 23,05 _27,32 27,98 66 17,157 Copper 8,895 38 4,27 Gold 19172 442 23,05 2799 8,43 44 6,88 Iron 7,700 38 4,94 j Gold 19,172 442 23,05 Iron 7,700 19 2,47 27,66 28,03,37 17,125 Copper 8,895 39 2,14 2 Gold 19,172 442 23,05 2 8 , z6 27,43 3 7,307 Tin 7,291 38 5,213 307 Gold 19 , 72:442 23OS 1 Tin 7,291 19 2,61 2,8 277,78,02 17,278 Copper 8,895 19 z2,14 J Gold 19,172 442 23,05 Copper 8,895 30 3,37 J 27,52 , 27,66 14 17,352 Tin 7,291 8,1 Gold 19,172 442 23,05 1 6 , Lead 11352 38 3,354 2 6 , o 26,54 14 18,080 equal parts of silver and copper , the expansion amounted to,67 ; which is the more remarkable , as , in the subsequent article , copper being employed singly , produced only an expansion of,66 .
It appears , therefore , that the compound alloy of silver and copper , being added in the proportion of -I to gold , causes a degree of expansion superior to that produced by copper , although it might be previously imagined , that the silver would have checked or diminished the expansive property of the copper .
Tof iron appears to have caused an expansion rather inferior to that of copper ; but an alloy composed of equal parts of iron and copper , produced an expansion less than the former .
This effect seems also to be peculiar to this compound alloy ; for , according to the effects which copper was found singly to produce upon gold , the compound alloy of iron and copper ought to have produced an expansion superior to that caused by iron alone .
A considerable contraction was caused when of tin was added to gold ; but , as an attempt had been made to pass the mass between rollers , before the specific gravity was taken , the contraction must not be estimated at so much as 53 .
Whenl gold was alloyed with equal parts of tin and copper , the contraction was found to be only , o , ; but , in the next case , when the copper amounted to 30 grains , and the tin only to 8 , an expansion took place , equal to,14 .
ITof lead produced an expansion equal to , I4 ; but , from the similarity of all the other effects of lead to those of bismuth , I am inclined to believe that lead , in some proportion greater than zi- , would produce contraction .
In all the instances , however , stated in the Table , expansion was observed ; and , when lead was in the proportion of 4 grains to 34 of copper , or of half a grain to 37of the same metal , then a very remarkable expansion took place , which seemed to be a peculiar effect of this compound alloy ; for , in the subsequent case , when the lead was reduced to 4 of a grain , the degree of expansion was much less .
Bismuth , in its various properties , as I have several times had occasion to observe , very much resembles lead , in respect to the effects which it produces upon gold , excepting , that when employed singly , and in the proportion of x-x , it occasioned a contraction equal to,31 .
But , in smaller quantities , and in conjunction with copper , it produced expansion , which became very considerable , when bismuth was added in the proportion of 4 grains , or of half a grain , per ounce ; so that what has been already said concerning lead may here be repeated .
oTof zinc caused the mass to contract , og ; but the volatility of this metal renders the results very uncertain .
In the last article , nearly the whole of the 8 grains of zinc were volatilized .
It is not necessary to make any remarks on the effects produced by cobalt and nickel upon gold ; and , in respect to antimony , we may observe , that contraction was produced in the two first cases , but expansion in all the others .
Indeed , from a general view of the Table it appears , that those metals which most readily render gold brittle , are those which have the greatest tendency to produce contraction , when added to gold in certain proportions .
In some cases , the degree of expansion seems to increase with the proportion of copper ; but then it must be observed , that this increase of expansion is frequently much more considerable 111 than that which ought to be produced , supposing this effect depended only upon the quantity of copper ; it may therefore be inferred , that the properties of a compound metal are peculiar to itself , and are in general different from the mean of the properties of the several metals employed to form the compound .
The results stated in the foregoing Table , seem to indicate , that the assertions of many respectable authors , concerning the density of alloyed metals , should not be understood in an absolute or unqualified sense .
Mr. BRIssoN , in his valuable work entitled PNsanteur speci3ique des Corps , has observed , that a mutual penetration takes place , when eleven parts of gold are alloyed with one of copper ; and , in consequence of this , that he found the specific gravity of gold alloyed with _t2 of copper to be 17,4+86 ; although , if this mutual penetration of the two metals had not happened , the specific gravity ought to have been 17,153 ; but , in the course of the present experiments , the reverse of this has been observed ; for , instead of any mutual penetration of these metals , a very notable degree of expansion in the alloyed mass has been remarked .
When 442 grains of gold , 23 car .
3grs .
fine , ( the specific gravity of which was 19,172 , ) were alloyed with 38 grains of fine copper , of the specific gravity of 8,895 , the mass was found to be of a specific gravity equal to 17,157 ; and , as the bulk of this alloyed mass amounted to 27,98 , while the natural bulk of the two metals before combination amounted only to 27,32 , there was consequently an expansion of the alloyed mass , equal to,66 .
These calculations were made upon an entire ingot , weighing two ounces Troy , or 960 grains ; which mode appeared to me to be more accurate , than if the experiments had been made upon part of a large mass or ingot .
In the latter case there are many sources of error , which either have been or will be noticed in the present Paper ; and the observations made upon them apply to the subject under immediate examination , as well as to the specific gravity of compound or alloyed metals in general .
If Mr. BRissoN made his experiment upon part of a large bar or ingot , ( which probably was the case , ) it will not be difficult to conceive the reason why he found the specific gravity to be 17,486 .
For , the unequal diffusion of the alloy , the quantity of the metal , with the nature , form , and position , of the mould , will always produce variations in specific gravity .
In some experiments , when copper was present in rather a less proportion than the above , still a very conspicuous degree of expansion prevailed , even in that part of the mass which was subjected to the pressure of a considerable quantity of superincumbent metal , and even when the whole was cast in a mould of iron , which , from repeated experiments , I have found to be unfavourable to the expansion of metals .
As a proof of this , I shall state an experiment which will again be found in a subsequent part of this Paper , but which may here be anticipated with propriety , as it tends to elucidate the present subject .
Experiment .
A quantity of gold , 23 car .
32 grs. fine , was alloyed with fine Swedish copper , in such a proportion as to form an uniform mass , which , by assays made upon both extremities , proved to be 8 Troy grains in the pound better than standard , Two pounds of this alloyed gold were cast in a mould of iron , by which a bar was formed , nearly 12 inches in length , one inch in breadth , and one quarter of an inch in thickness .
Every possible precaution had been taken , to mix and diffuse the copper uniformly throughout the gold ; and the assays which were made subsequent to the casting , fully proved that the mixture was perfect .
When , however , the specific gravity of the two extremities , or of the top and bottom ends of the bar , was examined , it appeared , that the specific gravity of the upper end was 17,035 , while that of the lower end was 17,364 .
So that , although the quality of the bar was perfectly equal in every part , yet , by the pressure of the superincumbent metal , the lower extremity , or that which was formed in the bottom of the mould , had acquired a very superior degree of density .
Now , from the foregoing Table it appears , that the bulk of 442 grains of gold , 23 car .
31 grs. fine , is very nearly 23,05 , and that the bulk of the fine Swedish copper employed in these experiments is , for 38 grains , equal to 4,27 ; consequently , the total bulk of these two metals , before combination , amounts to 27,32 .
Moreover , when these metals were combined , then the bulk of 480 grains of this standard gold was 27,98 ; so that an expansion equal to,66 had taken place , in consequence of the combination of 442 grains of the gold with 38 of the copper .
In order to compare this result with the bar abovementioned , it must be first remembered , that the quality of the latter was , throughout , 8 grains better than standard ; and sequ , 0 ns equently , 48 grais of this gld , consisted of 44266 grs. of fine gold , and 37,34 grs. of copper .
The bulk , therefore , of the 442,66 grs. of gold amounts to 23,08 , while that of the 37,34 grs. of copper is 4,19 ; which , added together , gives 27,27 for the total bulk of 480 grains before combination .
But , when this had been effected , and the bar had been cast as already mentioned , then the bulk of the upper extremity was found to be 28,18 , while that of the lower end was only 27,64 .
The difference , therefore , between 27,27 and 28,18 , shows , that an expansion equal to,91 had taken place in the upper end of the bar ; and the difference between 27,27 and 27,64 , also shows , that an expansion equal only to,37 had taken place in the inferior extremity ; and that thus a difference of,54 , in the expansion of the two extremities , had been produced merely by the pressure of the superincumbent metal .
Had it not been for this circumstance , there is reason to believe , that the general expansion of the whole mass would have been nearly the same as that of the standard gold mentioned in the Table , namely , ,66 ; for the expansion of the upper end of the bar being,9i , and that of the lower end being,37 , the mean consequently must be,64 , which ( taking into consideration the small difference in the quality of the two kinds of alloyed gold ) may be regarded as a very near approximation to the statement in the Table .
It will now be proper to notice other causes , which more or less influence the specific gravity of what is called standard gold .
The most frequent cause of variations , in the specific gravity of gold made standard by silver or copper , is the unequal diffusion of the alloy throughout the mass of gold ; for an exact distribution of the alloy is not so easily made as may be imagined , especially when a large quantity of gold is to be alloyed .
In Mints , this di-ficulty has however been considered , and an allowance has been made for it , which is called the Remedy for the Mlaster of the Mint .
According to this regulation , when the trial of the Pix , as it Q2 115 is called , takes place before the Lord Chancellor , the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury , &amp;c. &amp;c. &amp;c. the Master of the Mint is held excusable , , if the imperfection or deficiency of the coin , in the aggregate , is less than the sixth part of a carat , equal to 40 grains of fine gold , in the pound of standard , or the i S2d part of the value , When it is considered , that the extreme accuracy of philosophical experiments cannot easily be introduced into such establishments as mints , where the work is carried on upon a large scale , some latitude may with reason be expected , and granted , especially as a perfectly exact mixture of the alloy is attended with difficulty .
In HELLOT'S French translation of SICHLUTTER'S work , entitled Essais des Mines et des Metaux , p. 276 , the following experiment is mentioned , in order to prove the frequent unequal mixture of gold with another metal , such as silver .
" A quantity of silver , amounting to upwards of twenty " pounds , and containing about a 56th part of gold , was melted " in a crucible , and poured into cold water , in order that it might be granulated : by dipping , at different times , an iron ladle into the water under the stream of metal , parts of the first , " second , and third running were separately received ; and , " being assayed , were all found to differ in their content of gold .
" Dr. LEWIS , who has noticed this experiment , also describes another made by Mr. HOMBERG , which is related in the Memoirs of the Academy of Paris , for the year 1713 .
" Equal parts of gold and silver , melted together , and reduced : " into fine grains , were put into a crucible , with a mixture of " about equal parts of decrepitated sea salt and rough nitre " undee-them : the crucible being kept in a small fire in a wind " furnace for about a quarter of an hour , and then suffered to &lt; " cool , was broken ; the gold was then found in one lump at " c the bottom , and the silver above it , in two pieces , with some " grains enveloped in the salts , which had not been entirely ( melted .
The silv'er was perfectly pure , and without the least " mixture of gold ; but the gold retained about one-sixth part of silver .
" He repeated the experiment , with different mixtures of the two metals , and found the silver to be always free from gold , but that the gold retained a little of the silver , except in two instances , in which this was also pure .
Mr. HOMBERG observes , that ( unless the gold and silver are nearly in equal " quantities , the separation does not succeed and that the only nicety in the process consists in hitting the due point of fusion ; for , if the fire is too long continued , or the mixed made to flow " thin , the two metals , after they have parted from one another , " mingle again together .
" LEWIS'S Phil. Comm .
of Arts , p. 86 .
From these experiments it appears , that the equal distribution and mixture of two metals , such as gold and silver , is by no means very easy to be made , without certain precautions ; and also , that when they have been completely mixed , if they are kept in fusion under certain circumstances , a separation , more or less perfect , sometimes takes place .
This separation appears to be according to the relative affinities and specific gravities of the two metals , and is the soonest effected when the metals have not been perfectly mixed.* Soon after the commencement of the experiments at the Mint , I was desirous to examine the specific gravity of some bars of gold , which had been made standard by the addition of various kinds of copper ; and , as every usual precaution had been taken to mix the alloy properly with the gold , the pieces which were to be hydrostatically weighed were taken from the ends of the bars , without any discrimination whether the pieces were cut .
from the end of the bars which , when cast , had been formed near the mouth of the mould , or from that end which had been formed at the bottom .
The following were the results .
i. Gold made standard by the best Swedish copper , Specific the bar being cast in a mould of iron 17,372 2 .
The same bar melted again , and cast in sand 17,312 3 .
Gold made standard by common Swedish copper , cast in sand 6,25 4 .
Gold made standard by Swedish dollar copper , cast in sand .
16,977 5 .
Gold made standard by British copper , cast in iron 17,281 6 .
The same , cast in sand 16,99 7 .
Gold made standard with another sample of British copper , cast in sand 16,979 From these experiments it was evident , that when the same metal was cast in iron and in sand , a difference was to be observed in the specific gravity , which was always the most considerable when moulds of iron were employed ; but , allowing that this might have operated at certain times , yet so great a variation was discovered in other instances , that it was thought requisite to make a new series of experiments , in order to ascertain the cause ; and , as there was reason to suspect , that part , at least , of this difference in specific gravity arose from an unequal distribution of the alloy , two pieces were taken from the opposite extremities of each bar , and were examined as follows .
i. Gold made standard by silver 2 .
Gold made standard by equal parts of silver and copper 3 .
Gold made standard by copper 4 .
Gold made standard by lead 5 .
Gold made standard by equal parts of copper and iron 6 .
Gold made standard by an alloy composed of ?
copper and 4 of tin 7 .
Gold made standard by antimony I Specific gravity .
Upper end .
Lower end .
18,273 17,186 18 , o62 18,492 18,124 17,068 17,551 17,121 16,659 16,680 18,037 16,924 16,747 16,707 Each of the bars weighed two pounds Troy ; they were one inch broad , and of an inch in thickness ; and were cast in a mould of iron .
From these experiments it appeared , that the upper extremities of these bars , or those which had been formed at or near the mouth of the mould , were uniformly of greater specific gravity than the opposite ends of the same bars , or those which had been formed in the bottom of the mould ; and that the smallest variation in the specific gravity of the two ends of a bar , was in that which consisted of gold alloyed with lead .
The above mixtures were made with the usual precautions , such as rapid stirring , and pouring ; but , nevertheless , it seemed that the alloy had never been completely and uniformly distributed throughout the mass of gold ; or , if it really had been well diffused and mixed , that it subsequently ( although in a very short time ) had again separated , according to its relative 9ig specific gravity to that of gold .
Therefore , as the upper end of each bar was uniformly of a much greater specific gravity than the opposite extremity , and as the metal was speedily congealed in the mould , and as the contents of each crucible , when poured , occupied the mould in an inverted order , ( the metal at the bottom of the crucible being that which was last poured , and consequently being that which formed the upper extremity of the bar , ) there was much reason to believe that the alloy was not equally distributed , and that the melted mass , when in the crucible , varied in quality , so that the lower part consisted of gold above standard , and the upper part , of gold inferior to standard ; and , as but little alteration could take place when the metal was poured , this unequal quality remained , although inverted in respect to situation .
In consequence of these experiments , it became necessary to contrast them with comparative assays .
Several of these were therefore made ; but I shall only mention such as are immediately requisite to determine the question .
It is proper , however , to remark , that the upper extremities of the bars which have been mentioned , were all found to be better than standard , while the inferior extremities proved to be worse .
But the experiments to which I immediately allude are the following .
Experiment I. Twenty-two ounces two pennyweights and four grains of gold , 23 car .
3grs .
fine , were alloyed with one ounce seventeen pennyweights and eighteen grains of copper .
When the whole was completely melted , it was rapidly stirred , and was then suffered to continue in fusion during half an hour ; after which , it was poured into a mould of iron .
The rough end of the bar , next the mouth of the mould , was cut off , and then three pieces were taken , viz. one from the upper extremity , another from the middle , and a third from the bottom .
The specific gravity of these three pieces was ascertained ; and they were then assayed by Mr. BINGLEY , his Majesty 's Assay Master at the Mint , who reported them as follows .
Specific gravity .
Qaality by assay .
1 .
Top 18,141 { Better than standard , $L carat grs.* 2 1o Troy grains .
s. Middle 17 , %043 { Worse than standard , 1i carat grs. 105 Troy grains. .
Bottom 16,689 Worse thn anstandard , 3 carat grs..225 Troy grains .
This experiment therefore proved , that as the upper extremity , or No. 1 , was superior in specific gravity to the middle of the bar , or No. 2 , so this last was superior to the bottom , or lower extremity , No. 3 ; in like manner , the quality of the gold was much better in No. i than in No. 2 ; and this also considerably surpassed the quality of the last , or No. 3 .
But it was still uncertain , supposing the alloy to have been perfectly mixed , whether it would readily become partly separated from the gold , so as to leave the mass thus of different qualities .
To determine this , the next experiment was made .
Experiment Ii .
Eleven ounces one pennyweight and two grains of gold , 23 car .
g3 grs. fine , were alloyed with nineteen pennyweights and six grains of copper ; the whole being well melted , was stirred with a large earthen stirrer ; and , in order the better to mix the alloy with the gold , the melted rretal was poured alternately into two red-hot crucibles , after which , it was cast in the mould of iron .
The rough end of the bar was cut off , and a piece was then taken from each extremity .
The specific gravity of the upper end was 17,35 And that of the lower end was 7,364 So that , according to this experiment , the bottom end of the bar possessed the greatest specific gravity , contrary to the results of the former experiments .
By an assay of each piece , made by Mr. BINGLEY , it however appeared , that this difference in specific gravity was not caused by any unequal quality of the gold , for the proportion of alloy in the two pieces was found to be precisely the same ; the alloy had therefore been uniformly mixed .
Specific gravity .
Quality by assay .
i. Top 17,035 Better than standard , by 8 grains Troy .
2 .
Bottom 17,364 Better than standard , by 8 grains Troy .
It now remained , therefore , to examine whether the copper alloy , which was thus regularly distributed throughout the mass , could again be induced to separate by a subsequent fusion .
Experiment III .
The bar which had been made in the preceding experiment , was again melted , and was kept in complete fusion during half an hour , without being stirred or agitated ; it was then cast as before .
The two extremities , being separated , afforded the following results .
Spec. gravity .
Quality by assay .
i. Top 17,203 Better than standard , by lo grains Troy .
s. Bottom 17,387 Better than standard , by lo grains Troy .
This last bar was , therefore , throughout of an equal quality ; although it appeared that , by this second fusion , the whole mass was become finer , by two Troy grains , than it was in the former experiment ; and the specific gravity of both ends was also become more considerable .
In these two last experiments , the specific gravity of the bars was the greatest at the bottom ; and as by the assays it was proved , that each bar was of an uniform quality , it may be inferred , that when a bar of metal is cast in , or nearly in , a vertical position , a difference in the density of the mass takes place , independent of any change in the quality of the mixture , and that the greatest density prevails in the lower part of the column , or in that which suffers the greatest pressure from the superincumbent metal .
It also follows , that this effect is subject to be modified by the quality and specific gravity of the metal , by the more or less vertical position of the mould , by the quantity of metal which is cast , and especially by the length of the bar , or height of the metallic column .
There cannot be any doubt but that the same causes operated in those experiments which afforded results so precisely opposite to these last , in respect to the relative specific gravities of the extremities of the bars ; but then , the effect in question was much more than compensated by the unequal distribution of RX lag the alloy , which predominated in the upper part of the mass when in the crucible , and consequently was the first which entered and filled the lower part of the mould , so that the finer and more heavy gold , at the bottom of the crucible , was that which formed the upper part of the bar ; and it must be obvious , that the congelation was too rapid in the mould , to allow any very material change to take place after the metal was poured .
The foregoing facts being considered , it is possible to conceive , that a bar of alloyed gold may be throughout of equal specific gravity , and nevertheless not be of an uniform value or quality ; for the finer quality of the upper extremity , when not considerable , may at times be compensated by the superior density of the bottom ; but such efficts can only take place within a very limited sphere .
Exclusive of the causes lately enumerated , which occasion variations more or less considerable in the specific gravity of metals , there is another , which , I believe , has never been noticed ; it is true that its effects , when compared with those already mentioned , are but small ; but still it appears proper that it should be taken into consideration , in the course of the present investigation .
Long continued friction , is the cause to which I now allude ; for I have always found , that it produced a diminution in the specific gravity of those pieces of metal which had been subjected to it , as the following experiments will prove .
Experiment i. In this experiment , forty-two pieces of gold , differently alloyed , and of the diameter of a guinea , were taken in the following order .
Gold of 23 car .
, grs. fne 6 pieces .
2 .
Gold alloyed with silver 6 pieces .
3 .
Gold alloyed with silver and copper 6 pieces .
4 .
Gold alloyed with copper 6 pieces .
5 .
Gold alloyed with copper and iron 6 pieces .
6 .
Gold alloyed with A of copper and of tin 6 pieces .
7 .
Gold alloyed with an equal part of copper 6 pieces .
The specific gravity of each of the foregoing series of six pieces was then taken , with every possible precaution ; and afterwards the pieces were fixed in a machine , so that three of each series were opposed to the other three which were of a similar quality .
The machine was then put in motion ; and these pieces were made to rub against each other for a considerable time , or till 0oo300 revolutions had been performed ; after which , the pieces were removed , and the specific gravity of each series was again ascertained .
The following comparative statement will show , that a very evident diminution of the original specific gravity had taken place , in consequence of this long continued friction .
iS5 Specific gravity Specific gravity Quality .
before friction , after friction .
1 .
Gold of 23 car .
g grs. fine 19,277 19,171 2 .
Gold alloyed with silver 18 , og9 18,055 3 .
Gold alloyed with silver and copper 18,184 18,182 4 .
Gold alloyed with copper 18,053 18,014 5 .
Gold alloyed with copper and iron 17,151 17,095 6 .
Gold alloyed with copper and tin 17,607 17,581 7 .
Gold and copper , in equal parts 12,142 12,139 The proportion of gold in the foregoing pieces exceeded , in general , the standard quantity ; but that circumstance did not interfere with the principal object of these experiments , which will also be corroborated by the result of the subsequent experiment .
Experiment in Twelve pieces of fine copper , similar in size to those of gold which were employed in the former experiment , were weighed hydrostatically , altogether , and were afterwards placed in the machine , so that six were made to rub against six .
After 22200 revolutions , they were taken out , and their specific gravity was again accurately examined .
A very apparent diminution was found to be the result , for the specific gravity was , Before friction .
After friction .
8,785 8,283 .
Considering , therefore , that this diminution of specific gravity was found in each of the foregoing series , as well as in the j -II _ .
sIr present experiment , after the pieces had been subjected to long continued friction , there cannot be any doubt but that this is a general effect , which probably arises from the pieces having suffered expansion , in consequence of heat generated during the friction ; and , ( similar to what has been observed in pyrometrical experiments , ) that these pieces of metal did not , upon the cessation of friction , return precisely to their original size and specific gravity .
Among the other less powerful causes which produce some alteration in the specific gravity of gold , the processes of rolling , and of annealing , may also be enumerated ; for , in the course of these experiments , I have always found , that the specific gravity of the bars , &amp;c. was in a small degree increased by rolling , and that the contrary effect was produced by annealing .
The specific gravity of gold , 23 car . ?
3 grs. fine , when rolled and stamped without being annealed , I found to be 19,277 ; but , when the same was annealed , the specific gravity was 19,231I am , however , inclined to believe , that annealing had reduced the specific gravity to much less than is here stated ; and that the subsequent operation of stamping had , in some measure , compensated the effects of annealing .
For , it may be recollected , that in the experiments lately mentioned , it was proved , that the specific gravity of the pieces which had not been annealed , was reduced , by long continued friction , from 19,277 to 19,171 ; an effect surpassing that which resulted from annealing by , o6o ( 19,21 19,171 = , o6o ) ; and , if heat was the cause , the reverse might have been expected , inasmuch as the annealing heat exceeded that which was produced by friction ; but , 127 as this was not the case , I am induced to be of opinion , that the specific gravity was again increased , by the subsequent stamping of the annealed pieces .
In addition , therefore , to those causes of variation in specific gravity which are the immediate consequences of hydrostatical operations , such as , the different height of the column of water , and the changes of temperature to which it is exposed during the experiments , the following , as far as they concern metallic substances , may be enumerated .
i. Imperfections in the interior of the mass , which are produced during the processes of melting and casting .
2 .
The difference of density in parts of the same mass , resulting from the quality and quantity of the metal , from the nature of the mould , from the more or less vertical position of it , and from the height of the column or bar of metal which is cast .
g. The unequal distribution of the metal , or metals , employed as an alloy , throughout the mass intended to be alloyed .
4 .
The peculiar effects which certain metals produce , when used singly or conjointly as alloys , and which are very different from the results of calculation , * 5 .
Heat , whether produced by friction or excited in any other manner .
As , therefore , the specific gravity of metals is liable to be influenced by such a variety of causes , it is almost in vain to expect absolute precision , in the results of experiments made by different persons ; but , at the same time , it may be observed , that by proper care and attention to the above circumstances , a degree of accuracy may be attained , sufficient to answer almost every useful purpose , although , from what has been said , it must appear improper to form opinions upon small fractional variations .
By the experiments which I made , with every possible precaution , upon separate and entire ingots of gold , reduced to standard by silver , by silver and copper , and by copper alone , when cast in an iron mould like a cupel , it appeared , that the specific gravity of each of these kinds of standard gold is as follows .
Gold made standard by silver 17,927 Gold made standard by silver and copper 17,344 Gold made standard by copper 1,157 .
Now , as our gold coin commonly contains silver as part of the alloy , and as at different times this proportion of silver must have been various , and even considerable , particularly when the gold of Portugal , which is alloyed with silver , was brought to the Mint , it naturally follows that , exclusive of the many other causes of variation which have lately been enumerated , the specific gravity of our standard gold must occasionally be different , according to the relative proportions of silver and copper which compose the alloy ; * and , as the specific gravity of gold made standard by silver is , in the ingot cast under the above circum* The first guineas which were coined , or those of CHARLES II .
and JAMES I. were generally alloyed with standard silver ; but the coins of the subsequent reigns have been alloyed with copper , added to compensate the deficiency of alloy , or of silver in the gold .
stances , 17,927 , while that of gold made standard by copper is only 17,157 , so , according to the relative proportions of these two metals , when united in the alloy , the specific gravity of the standard gold may vary between the two extremes of 17,927 and 17,157 , although the real quality or value of the standard gold remains unchanged ; and indeed , when some allowance is also made for small variations arising from other causes , the range of the different specific gravities of gold made standard by silver and copper , may be considered as nearly extending from 18 to 17 .
The following Table is intended to show the various Statements of different Authors , respecting the specific Gravity o fine and of standard Gold .
TABLE III Fine gold .
Specific grav .
Names of Authors .
Fine gold 19,640 WARD , COTES , MussCHENBROEK .
A medal , esteemed to be nearly fine gold 19,636 CASWELL .
Fine god : ~ P19,300 l Fine gold to H LEWIS.* 19,400 However respectable the names of some of the foregoing authors may be , there is much reason to believe , that the specific gravity of fine gold , in the two first instances , has been too highly estimated ; and , as to standard gold , there cannot be any doubt but that some error must have been the , cause which induced CASWELL , WARD , COTES , and MUSSCHENBROEK , to rate it at 18,888 ; and HARRIS to state the specific gravity of the JACOBUS at 18,375 .
What this error was , cannot now be determined ; but , if the operations were accurately performed , and , considering the eminence of the persons concerned , this can scarcely be doubted , we must conclude that too small a proportion of alloy was present in both cases ; for this appears to be very probable , from the general result of the whole of the preceding experiments.* Some such cause of error must have therefore prevailed , in the two first cases of standard gold contained in the foregoing Table ; and it is absolutely necessary that this should be strongly pointed out , lest any one should fall into a mistaken notion , which has but too commonly been received in this country , and which has injuriously and unjustly been believed on the Continent , to the detriment of the British Exchange .
The erroneous idea to which I allude is , the belief that the standard gold of the present reign is inferior to those which have preceded it ; the real fact is , however , precisely the reverse , as the following extract , from the Report of Messrs. GARBETTS to the Lords of the Treasury , in 1782 , will sufficiently prove .
Extract from Messrs. GARBETTS ' Report .
Wehad reason to believe that our gold coin was not esti " mated , at foreign Mints , of the same fineness which our " standard declares it at , viz. 22 parts fine gold , and 2 parts " alloy ; and , upon intimating this circumstance to the King 's " and Master 's Assayers , we were informed that a plan had been s " settled , prior to the recoinage , for ascertaining the actual " fineness of the coin ; and that guineas of every separate reign " had been melted into ingots of 15 pounds each , without in ' termixing the different reigns ; that , from the contrary ends " of each ingot , they had made assays , which so nearly accorded , " as not to leave a doubt but the coins were worse than stand"ard .
The King 's Assayers record of them was as follows .
's~~c ?
~~~~~~~~~~~~s .
d.i. " CHARLES II .
6 Tr. grs. in a lb. worse than standard= 9 olo ?
Pfc ' " JAMES II .
30o ---Ditto =4 " WILLIAM III .
13.----Ditto 4 11 " ANNE 7-Ditto = 72 " GEORGE I. 6 ------Ditto -= 23 " GEORGE II .
3K &lt; ---Ditto =1 " GEORGE III .
standard -standard sstandard .
" The accuracy of these assays was farther confirmed , by .
nearly the same average of worseness being found upon more " than 170000 guineas , taken promiscuously from those reigns .
" In this place it should be observed , that if a pound of gold " coin does not vary more than 40 Troy grains in fineness , and in weight , or in both together , it is allowed by the Mint in"denture to pass as standard .
" During Lord CADOGAN'S mastership , the average of weight " ath been only 2 grains 156 decimals lack per lb. which was ( paid by the moneyers at the scale ; and , in upwards of 40000 assays from the specimens of coin taken at the pix , ( of " twenty-eight millions sent into circulation , ) only one hath " deviated in fineness 8 grains in the pound ; and , from the " public trial of them by the Goldsmith 's Company , there hath ( not been recorded more than .
grains error in weight , and no " t deviation in fineness .
( The Master of the Mint , therefore , might have varied in ( fineness 36 Troy grains in a pound , or 13s .
7-3d .
per cent. without being liable to censure , if it did not appear he had " done it by design .
This is sufficient to show the impropriety " of allowing a latitude of 4o Troy grains in a pound , for error in fineness , or in weight together , or in either ; and which has so operated as to make our guineas of less value than we " ' declare them , and to be estimated , as we are informed , at the " Dutch Mints , io grains worse , and at Paris 15 grains Troy " worse ; nor do they make any difference , either in Holland or " in France , between our present King 's guineas and those of " former reigns .
" ( How far this deficiency affects the par of exchange in " , money , and the Course of Exchange in bills , we submit to " ' consideration , as a matter of great importance .
" Since the preceding pages were written , in which I have stated the numerous causes which tend to produce variations in the specific gravity of gold made standard by silver and copper , I have been induced to examine several of the English gold coins , and particularly those of the present reign .
The results of this examination , contained in the annexed Table , fully confirm my former sentiments , especially in respect to the impropriety of estimating the value of the coin of a country , by insulated experiments on the specific gravity of a few pieces ; for , a certain variation in the specific gravity of coin , independent of any alteration in its real value , is almost , if not absolutely , unavoidable .
Specii Gravity of some of the English gold Coins , at Ternperature 60 ?
of FAHRENHEIT .
TABLE IV .
Reign .
Date .
CHARLES II .
a five-guinea piece 1681 JAMES II .
a two-guinea piece -1687 WILLIAM III .
a five-guinea piece 1701 GEORGE I. a quarter-guinea 1718 GEORGE II .
a guinea 1735 ... ... ---a two-guinea piece 1740 GEORGE III .
one guinea 1761 ---.---one guinea 1766.- ... ... . .
-one guinea 1774 ----one guinea 1775 --l ... ..one guinea 1776 ----one guinea 1777 -----one guinea 1782 -----one guinea 1786 ----one guinea -1* 788 ------'five guineas -1793 ten half-guineas '80o -------15 seven-shilling pieces* 18o0 Specific gravity .
17,825 .
17,634 .
17,710 .
16,894 .
17,637 .
17,848 .
17,73717,655 .
17,726 .
17,698 .
174,86 .
17,750 .
17,202 .
17,465 .
17,418 .
17,712 .
17,750 .
1 7,793 SECTION III .
ON THE COMPARATIVE WEAR OF GOLD , WHEN ALLOYED IY VARIOUS METALS .
The comparative wear of gold , especially when in the form of coin , has never yet been ascertained ; the opinions concerning it are therefore various .
The most prevalent idea appears to be , that pure or ductile gold suffers more in a given time , under equal circumstances , than that which is of a harder quality .
Supposing this fact to be well established , it would not be difficult to render gold as hard as could be desired ; for , as certain metals , when employed in equal proportions , cause gold to become of very different degrees of hardness , it would be easy even to make gold perfectly hard and brittle , without changing the standard proportion of alloy , provided that such extreme hardness was compatible with the process of coining .
But the question , whether ductile or hard and brittle gold sustains the greatest loss by wear , under equal circumstances , has by no means been fully determined ; and Mr. HARRIS appears to have considered hard metal as the most liable to suffer , it being , when compared to that which is pure and soft , more brittle and less tenacious.* Gold , when in the form of coin , appears to be generally exposed to three varieties of friction , viz. ist .
Friction between pieces of gold coin of a similar or of a different quality .
edly .
Friction of gold coin against coin of other metals , such as silver and copper .
3dly .
The friction which gold coins of various qualities suffer , when exposed to the action of certain substances , such as the particles or filings of metals , gritty powders , &amp;c. The consideration of these different modes of wear , points out the best method to be pursued in an experimental investigation .
The whole of the experiments which compose this section may therefore be divided into three subordinate series ; the two first of which have been directed to the consideration of that part of the diminution of the coin which arises from the rubbing of one piece of metal -against another ; while , The third of these subordinate series was intended to show the comparative power of gold , diff rently alloyed , to resist abrasion from sand or other grity powders .
In the first set of experiments , 28 pieces of coin were fixed to a frame , and over each of them was placed another piece of coin , which was pressed against it by a weight .
These upper pieces were all attached to a second frame , so that , by means of the motion communicated thereto by cranks , each upper piece was made to move about of an inch backwards and forwards on the lower one .
This mode of experiment afforded an opportunity of trying the comparative diminution of gold differently alloyed , both when rubbed against pieces of the same and of a different alloy ; and also of examining the difference of wear between pieces with plain and with stamped faces .
In the second series , 200 pieces of gold , differently alloyed , were enclosed in a wooden box , of a cubic figure , which was kept constantly turning round , till , by the repeated rubbing and , striking of the pieces against each other , and against the sides of Tr the box , they were found to be sensibly diminished .
This , like the experiments of the first set , was intended to show the comparative diminution of gold differently alloyed ; but , whereas that showed the effect of rubbing only , this showed the joint effect of rubbing and striking , and was intended to imitate ( although in a more violent degree ) the effect produced upon coin by pouring it out of one bag or drawer into another .
The experiments of the third set were made by pressing the pieces to be examined against the rim of a flat horizontal wheel , by means of equal weights , so that , by turning the wheel round , they all suffered an equal degree of friction .
That part of the wheel against which the pieces rubbed , was sprinkled or coated with some kind of powder , which was occasionally varied .
The above statement will convey a general idea of the manner of making the experiments ; but , that the whole may be more fully comprehended , the following description of the instruments has been added by Mr. CAVENDISH.* DESCRIPTION OF THE INSTRUMENTS .
It has been already observed that , in the first series of experiments , 28 pieces of coin were fixed to a frame , and that over each of them was placed another piece , which was pressed against it by a weight ; and that these upper pieces were all connected to a second frame , so that , in consequence of the motion communicated thereto by cranks , each upper piece was rubbed backwards and forwards upon that which was under it .
Fig. i , ( Plate II .
) represents a plan of this instrument ; and Fig. 2 is a vertical section of it , drawn parallel to the line AB .
The upper frame , or that to which the upper pieces of coin are connected , is of brass , and consists of four bars , Fig. i , AB , Bb , ba , and aA , with three cross bars Cc , Cc , Cc .
The lower frame consists of a board , placed immediately under the upper frame , and is expressed in Fig. 2 , by the letters LL. The upper frame is supported by two vertical boards , extending the whole length of the sides Bb and Aa , so that the ends of them are seen in Fig. 2 , and are denoted by the letters DD , DD .
These boards are fastened to the upper frame , and to the table upon which the apparatus stands , by hinges , so that the upper frame can move freely in the direction BA , but can have no motion in the direction perpendicular thereto .
These vertical boards are omitted in Fig. i ; for , as the intention of this description is not to give a detail of all the parts of the instruments , but only to explain their manner of acting , I have taken the liberty to omit such parts as tended to produce an intricacy in the figures , without being necessary to this object .
The disposition of the pieces of coin on the frames , is represented in Fig. 1 .
Nnn denote one of the connecting pieces , by which the upper pieces of coin are connected to the upper frame , and in which the small circle represents the position of the coin ; the large circle is the part which supports the weight , and nna the part by which it is connected to the upper frame .
To avoid confusion , neither these connecting pieces nor the pieces of coin are represented in Fig. 2 ; but , instead thereof , a section of cne of these pieces is given , in Fig. 3 , upon a larger Sca le In hhis fi ur , LL is the lower frame , and C one of the bars of the upper rme ; y is one of the lower pieces of coin , which 141 is bedded and fixed firmly in a brass socket x , fastened to the lower frame ; u is the piece of coin to be rubbed against it , which , in like manner , is fixed in another brass socket w ; Nn is the connecting piece , by which this socket is connected to the bar C of the upper frame .
This piece turns on pivots , in two studs n , fixed to the bar C , so that it can turn freely on those pivots in a vertical direction , but cannot be perceptibly shaken horizontally .
Z is the weight by which this connecting piece is pressed down ; it is round , and is placed with its centre exactly over that of the socket w. It must be observed that , in the construction of this machine , three things principally demanded attention .
ist .
That the pieces of coin should all move equally .
2dly .
That they should all be pressed against the lower pieces by the same weight .
And , gdly .
That they should bear flat against them .
As to the first requisite , it is evident that the pieces must all move alike , excepting so far as proceeded from the springing of the parts of the machine , or from the shake in its joints , both of which were very small .
Secondly , as the connecting pieces move freely in a vertical direction , it is clear that the force with which the upper piece of coin is pressed against the lower one , depends only on its own weight , on that of the socket w , on that of the connecting piece Nn , and on the weight Z by which it is loaded ; so that the second requisite is thus easily obtained .
Thirdly , the connecting piece Nn bears against the socket w only by the pin p , which enters into a hole in the centre of the socket , so that the two pieces must necessarily bear flat against each other ; but , as this pin alone would not have prevented the socket from turning round on its centre , two other pins II n were fixed into the connecting piece , and entered into slits made in the socket near its circumference , allowing no more shake than was necessary to prevent it from sticking ; and thus the motion round the centre was effectually prevented .
It may be observed , that the pieces might have been made to bear flat against each other by fixing the sockets w in gimbals ; but , as the method above described was effectual , and much easier made , it was preferred .
It may be also remarked , that the breadth of the bars Cc , as represented in Fig. i , is not sufficient to prevent them from springing considerably ; for this reason , a method of strengthening them was employed , which answered the purpose perfectly well , but is omitted in the drawing , as it could not be easily represented .
It was at first intended , that the lower frame should have remained fixed , and that only the upper one should have moved ; but , in a previous trial , in which two pieces of metal were rubbed backwards and forwards upon each other in the same line , with a view to discover what weight would be necessary to make the pieces wear tolerably fast , I found that for a time they diminished slowly , but that little furrows or gullies were soon worn in them , and that then the diminution was rapid .
I also observed , that the gullies in the upper pieces corresponded to those in the lower ones ; so that it was impossible that the pieces of metal should touch each other in those places where the diminution was most rapid , and consequently the gullies must have been formed by the particles of metal which had been abraded , and which subsequently had become accumulated .
143 It seemed to me , that the most probable way to prevent the little furrows or gullies from being thus formed , would be , to construct the instrument in such a manner , that the direction in which the pieces rubbed upon each other should continually vary .
The following contrivance was therefore adopted , by which the pieces were prevented from rubbing together twice in the same direction .
In this method , the lower frame , as well as the upper , is supported on two moveable vertical boards ; but , whereas the boards supporting the upper frame are placed parallel to Bb , in consequence of which the frame can move only in the direction BA , these are placed parallel to BA , so that the frame can move only in the direction Bb .
EE is the axis by which the upper frame is moved : this turns in fixed sockets at SS , and is turned at each end into the form of an eccentric circle , which acts as a crank ; so that , by means of the levers EK , which at one end turn on these eccentric circles , and at the other end turn on joints fixed to the upper frame , this frame is made to move ?
of an inch , in the direction BA , during one half of the revolution of the axis , and as much in the contrary direction , during the other half revolution .
ee is an axis of the same kind , serving to move the lower frame .
HH is a windlass , which turns these two axes by means of the toothed wheels F , f , which work in the toothed wheels G , g , fastened to the axes EE and ee .
TTTTT is the table upon which the apparatus stands .
The wheel F has go teeth , f has 75 , and G , g , have each 2o ; so that the axis EE makes six revolutions while ee makes five ; and , at a medium , these axes make about four revolutions to one of the windlass .
A counter is placed so as to show the number of revolutions of the windlass .
If the two frames had performed their vibrations in the same time , no advantage would have been gained , for the pieces of coin would still have moved upon each other always in the same ebf line ; but , as their vibrations are performed in different times , the effect is quite different ; for , let C , in the annexed figure , be the centre of one D of the pieces in the lower frame .
Draw the lines Bb and Dd in the directions of the motion of the lower and LE upper frame , and equal to the space B which those frames describe in one semi-revolution of the cranks , and complete the square of of OF .
Then , if the upper frame is moving with its greatest velocity in the direction Dd , at the same time that the lower one is moving with its greatest velocity in the direction Bb , the motion of the upper piece on the lower one will be in the diagonalfF ; but if , at that time , the lower frame is moving with its greatest velocity in the contrary direction bB , the motion will be in the other diagonal Ee .
If one frame is moving with its greatest velocity , while the other is at the extremity of its vibration , the motion will be in the circumference of the circle bDB d , inscribed within the square ; and , in the intermediate cases , it will be in the circumference of an ellipsis , which is inscribed in the same square , and whose axes are in the diagonals eE and fF , but in which the proportion of the axes is continually changing ; that axis which is placed in Ff being sometimes the greatest , and at other times the least .
This contrivance , therefore , effectually prevented the pieces from moving upon each other always in the same line ; and it seems also to have much diminished the disposition which they had to wear in gullies , but not entirely ; for , from the following experiments it appears , that still some few particles would become occasionally collected , and then acted as a grinding powder , which accelerated the wear of the pieces .
This was observed particularly to happen to the pieces of gold alloyed with an equal proportion of copper , and to the pieces of copper , which were also more frequently worn in ftrrows or gullies , than the other pieces of more ductile metal .
The motion of the pieces of coin upon each other , is greater than it would have been if only one frame had been made to move , nearly in the proportion of 3 to 2 ; so that the whole motion of the pieces , in each semi-revolution of the axes EE or ee , is about i of an inch , and therefore it is about three inches in each revolution of the windlass .
The instrument employed in the second series of experiments , is so simple as not to require any drawing .
It consisted only of a cubical box of oak , which measured 8 inches each way , within side .
This box was moved by the axis EE of the former instrument , which was passed through the middle of two opposite sides , and was fixed in that position .
Fig. 4 , represents a plan of the instrument used in the third series of experiments .
aaa is a horizontal table , turning upon a vertical axis ; and BBBbbb is a fixed frame surrounding it .
The pieces of coin are fastened to this fixed frame , by the same connecting pieces which were formerly employed , and are pressed down also by similar weights .
The diameter of that part of the wheel against which the centres of the pieces of coin are pressed , is 99 inches ; so that , while this wheel makes one revolution , the pieces are rubbed against it through the whole circumference of this circle , that is , through 91-iO inches .
A shallow groove ggg is cut in this wheel , in that part against which the pieces are pressed , in order to confine the powders employed in the experiments ; and the number of revolutions of the wheel are marked by a counter .
By the help of the instruments above described , it was proposed to determine , as accurately as possible , ist .
The comparative wear of soft and of hard gold .
2dly .
Whether coins with flat or with raised surfaces suffer the greatest loss by friction , when subjected to it under similar circumstances.'* It is scarcely necessary to observe , that rigorously exact results could not be expected in all the minutiae of experiments like the present ; for , many circumstances , apparently but trivial , produced almost unsurmountable obstacles ; but , nevertheless , these did not impede the essential objects from being investigated , and determined , in a manner sufficiently satisfactory .
Before the experiments are described , it will be proper to add , that , to obviate the irregular effects which would be produced by the inequality of the impressions usually employed for coins , Mr. CAVENDISH suggested a die , which was executed by Mr. PINGO , and which consisted of round prominencies regularly disposed over the surface , so that the effects which this , Although coins with protuberances on their surfaces , have been generally supposed to suffer more by friction than those which are flat , yet , as this opinion has been questioned , and as several objections have been made to it by intelligent persons , it was thought expedient that the decision of the question should form part of the present investigation U2 147 impression produced , during friction , were uniformly the same in every direction .
The first experiments were intended to ascertain the different wear of gold made standard by various metals ; and the pieces were rubbed against each other by means of the first-described apparatus , which I shall call No. i. Some preparatory experiments were also made , to try the effects of this ' machine , as well as to determine , in some measure , the comparative wear of gold made standard by copper , of a mixture of gold and copper in equal proportions , and , lastly , of copper .
Experiment i. Twelve pieces of the standard gold were first examined , and were placed so that six were opposed to six .
The brass frame , in which each upper piece was fixed , weighed 16o4 grains ; and it was found necessary to add to each a weight bf lead , equal to 19825 grains ; so that the pieces were rubbed against each other under the pressure of 19825+ 160 = 21429 grains =3 Ib.l 8 oz. 12 dts .
21 grs.* The machine was then put in motion , until the index showed that 28669o revolutions had been performed ; and , as a double crank acted during each revolution , the pieces were rubbed against each other alternately , in opposite directions , 57338o times , being twice the number of the revolutions .
The twelve pieces of standard gold , being taken out , were weighed , and were found to have lost 8,60 grs. Experiment I1 .
This experiment was made upon twelve pieces of gold combined with an equal proportion of copper .
The faces which were opposed were flat , and without any impression .
After 7o06o revolutions , these pieces had lost 103,11 grs. Experiment iir .
Twelve pieces of fine copper , perfectly flat , and not stamped , were next placed in the machine , and were taken out after.22oo revolutions ; they had then lost 174,80 grs. From these preliminary experiments it appears , ist .
That pieces of gold made standard by - ) of copper , when rubbed against each other , suffer less than gold much debased by copper , or in which the latter metal is in equal proportion to the gold .
And , edly .
That pieces of gold alloyed with an equal quantity of copper , when rubbed against each other , suffer less than pieces of copper which are subjected to a similar process .
These essential objects being thus ascertained , the following experiment was made .
Experiment i. Forty-eight pieces of gold , variously alloyed , which were perfectly flat and smooth , were fixed in the machine No. i. In this experiment , six pieces of each kind of gold were employed , and were so arranged , that three of each were made to rub against three of a similar quality ; and the loss produced by friction , was afterwards estimated upon the whole of the six pieces .
The annexed Table will show the comparative loss sustained by the different kinds of gold .
149 TABLE I. Total number of revolutions , 00oooo .
Weight beWeight after Quality .
fore friction , friction .
Loss .
i. Gold made standard by Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
copper I 844,90 844,90 2 .
Gold reduced to 18 carats by copper 747,60 747,60 g. Gold made standard by copper and silver 829,20 829,10 , i 4 .
Gold made standard by .
i silver 937 937,10 10 5 .
Gold 23 car .
grs. fine | 854,0 |o 849,80 | 4,20 6 .
Gold made standard by tin I and copper 846,90 831,6 15,30 7 .
Gold made standard by I iron and copper 825,10 803o 2,6o 8 .
Gold alloyed with an equal proportion of copper 615,68 549690 65,78 naX_ S.._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ According to this statement , it appears , that fine gold of 23 car .
3$ grs. suffered more by friction , under the above described circumstances , than gold made standard either by copper , by silver and copper , or by silver ; but that this fine gold of 23 car .
3 ?
grs. suffered less by wear than gold made standard by tin and copper , or by iron and copper ; and , lastly , that copper , although it appears to be beneficial when in the proportion of -2 and sometimes when it even amounts to 3 yet , if employed in a larger proportion , for example , when equal to the quantity of gold , it then becomes highly detrimental , for it not only much injures the colour of the precious metal , but also renders it extremely susceptible of the effects of friction .
The presence of tin , or iron , appears also to render standard gold more liable to wear , than when the alloy consists only of copper , or of silver .
So rapid was the loss of the pieces composed of equal parts of gold and copper , and of the others in which iron was present , that it was found necessary to remove the former , as well as those pieces which contained iron , after 1 o548o revolutions had been performed .
The pieces containing tin were worn so thin , after 18g9co revolutions , that they also were obliged to be taken out .
As , therefore , the whole of the others sustained 200300 revolutions , it may be concluded , that the comparative loss of the pieces which were taken out , although very considerable , would have been much greater , had it been possible to have kept them in the apparatus during the whole period of the experiment .
The preceding experiment was made upon smooth , flat , unstamped pieces ; it was therefore thought necessary to repeat it , in some measure , upon those which had been stamped by the die already described .
In the following experiment , there was also a small variation , in respect to the quality of the series which were examined ; for , the pieces composed of gold and : copper in equal proportions were omitted , and some pieces of standard silver , and some of fine copper , were added .
Experiment ii .
In this experiment , as in the former , pieces of similar quality were opposed to each other ; and , in general , every circumstance was the same , excepting that the pieces were stamped , that the number of revolutions amounted only to 20680 , and that all 5ii the pieces remained in the apparatus till the experiment was finished .
TABLE II .
Number of revolutions , o2680 .
Weight beWeight after Q ality .
fore friction .
friction .
Loss. .
, ~ , ~ , .
~ , _ , _ , ... .
_ .
, , _ , , .
2 i. Gold made standard by Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
copper 846,90 846,50 0,6o 2 .
Gold made standard by Jl copper and silver 834,80 833,60 1,20 3 .
Gold made standard by -l silver 9 3-940,0 936,80 3,5 4 .
Standard silver 518,70 | 515 3,70 5 .
Gold 23 car .
3 grs. fine 846,40 1 841,80 | 4,60 6 .
Gold reduced to 18 carats .
l by copper 745,80 741 j 4,80 7 .
Gold made standard by iron and copper 825,6o 818 7,60 8 .
Gold made standard by tin and copper 8 849,40 835,60 13,80 9 .
Copper 496,90 450,60 46,30 Upon comparing the result of this experiment with that of the former , it may in like manner be observed , that gold made standard by copper , or by silver and copper , or by silver , suffered the least by wear ; after which , standard silver , and then gold of 23 car .
3 ?
grs. together with the others enumerated in the Table , were progressively more affected ; and as , in the first experiment , the greatest loss was sustained by gold alloyed with an equal proportion of copper , so , in this last experiment , the copper pieces suffered the most considerable diminution .
It must however be also remarked , that , contrary to the former experiment , gold reduced by copper to 18 carats , lost more than gold of 23 car .
g3 grs. ; and gold alloyed with tin and copper , lost more than that which was alloyed with copper and iron ; but , in general , the coincidence of the results of the two experiments , appears to be as satisfactory as could with reason be expected .
Lastly , it appears , upon comparing the effects produced , with the number of revolutions employed in the two experiments , that we have a proof of the increase of wear which attends the friction of raised or embossed surfaces .
Hitherto , the effects produced by the friction of pieces of a similar quality only had been examined ; but , in order to ascertain the comparative wear which would be occasioned by rubbing pieces of a similar and of a different quality against each other , by one operation , the following experiment was made .
Experiment II .
This experiment was made upon 54 unstamped pieces of gold , the different qualities of which are expressed in the annexed Table ; and it is necessary here to observe , that standard gold is always to be understood from the terms gold alloyed with silver , gold with silver and copper , &amp;c. excepting when other proportions are expressly stated .
It has been already observed , that the foregoing experiment was similar to that which preceded it , in respect to the quality , number , and arrangement of the pieces ; and the only difference was , that the pieces employed in the present experiment were stamped with the die formerly mentioned .
As the continuance of the friction was not so long as that of the former experiment , it was not found necessary to remove any of the pieces , so that the complete series remained in the apparatus , during the whole of the experiment .
It will now be proper to compare the results of these two last experiments ; and , in order to do this with more perspicuity , the following comparative Table , and some observations upon it , have been added .
COMPARATIVE TABLE , V. Number of revolutions , z29040 .
| Number of revolutions , 83520 .
Plain or unstapedpe pieces .
Staped pieces .
Quality .
Loss .
Quality .
| Loss .
Grains .
Grains , 1 3,0 1 6,30 1 70 Gold ' 23 car .
34 grs. 2 , 3,30 J Gold 23 car .
3- } grs. 2 1,70 Jgained,40 |~~~~~~~I -.~~ 1,30 31Go.ld3 o,80 Gold made stand .
by silver 0 o,0 Gold made stand .
by silver J 0,90 4 0,0 4 0,10 J5 6,40 I."5 0,20 1 Gold with silver &amp; copper 9,7Gold with silver &amp; copper .
110 6 3,30 J6 0,90g Gold with copper o , o Gold with copper 0,30 8 0,10 8J o8o0 Io0 9 It7,20 { 9 3,20 I Gold with iron and copper 3,20o Gold with iron and copper Sc,2O 10 I4,0 J 10 2,0 J 'i 0,10 1 ? ?
1 30 Standard silver o , zo Standard silver 3,0 12 0,10 1 22 1,70 __ 13 o0 , I0 1 13 44,401 Copper 88,8o Copper 80,50..14 I 38,70,..14,.3 Io ___ * The coisiderable diminution of these pieces was caused by an accident , which has been mentionied in a former note .
From this comparative Table it appears , that although the experiments were made with correct instruments , and with every possible precaution , yet perfect accuracy could not be attained , nor indeed expected ; for , various minute and unavoidable circumstances contributed to produce very sensible effects ; even a few particles , collected and retained between the pieces during the operation , frequently prevented the loss by friction from being correctly ascertained .
Another cause of irregularity in the comparative wear of the pieces , arose from a small degree of unevenness in the level of many of the unstamped faces , which , although scarcely perceptible to the eye , became sufficiently apparent when friction commenced , and pointed out the necessity of relying only upon general results .
It would not , therefore , be right to lay too great a stress upon very small and only occasional deviations in the results ; and consequently the small difference of a few fractional parts do not merit attention ; for the same reason , it would not be proper to form an opinion upon certain results , which , without any very apparent cause , seem to be in opposition to each other .
The most candid and certain mode to be adopted , under these impediments , appears therefore to be , that of taking into consideration only such effects as were general , under every change of circumstance , and which were invariably more or less the same , however the mode of operation might be diversified .
Upon this basis it may be concluded , that the preceding experiments prove , ist .
That fine gold , or of 23 car .
3grs .
when exposed to friction against gold of an equal quality , under the pressure of a considerable weight , suffers a very notable loss ; and , although various circumstances seemed to indicate that but little effect , in respect to abrasion , is produced under a less weight , yet it must be remembered , that the first case may occur.* Moreover , by the late experiments it has been proved , that fine gold , under all circumstances , is more subject to have any embossed or raised parts of its surface obliterated than any variety of alloyed gold ; not always , nor indeed so much , by actual abrasion , as by having the protuberant parts pressed and rubbed into the mass , in consequence of its extreme softness and ductility.-t 2dly .
That fine gold , or of 23 car .
3$ grs. when rubbed against the various kinds of alloyed gold , always or generally suffers the greatest comparative loss .
3dly .
That gold reduced to 22 carats , or to standard , by silver , or by silver and copper , or merely by copper , suffers by friction , under general and similar circumstances , a smaller diminution than the fine gold abovementioned ; and , with or without abrasion , the protuberant parts on the surfaces of these pieces remain much more permanent , under all circumstances , than those of the fine gold .
The difference of wear between the three kinds of standard gold abovementioned , does not in reality appear to be very considerable ; but , upon the whole , the preference may be given to gold alloyed with a mixture of silver and copper , or to that which has only copper for the alloy .
4thly .
That gold made standard partly by the addition of iron or tin , , sustains a greater loss by friction than either of the three kinds of standard gold abovementioned .
5thly .
That gold reduced to 18 carats by copper , is more liable occasionally to wear , in a small degree , than the three kinds of standard gold which have been lately mentioned , provided that the friction takes place between pieces of equal quality ; but , in the contrary case , the principal loss always falls on the soft or standard gold , when it is opposed to gold of 18 carats , which is considerably harder .
6thly .
That gold more debased than that of 18 carats , such as gold alloyed with an equal proportion of copper , suffers very considerably more than any of the kinds hitherto mentioned , provided that the pieces are of the same quality ; but , on the contrary , fine and standard gold experience a very great loss , when exposed to the action of this debased gold , while the loss of the latter is comparatively much less .
7thly .
That the wear of standard silver appears to be nearly equal with that of fine gold ; but more than that of gold made standard by silver or by copper , and less than that of gold much debased by copper .
8thly .
That , as gold which is not inferior to standard wears in general less than standard silver , so does this last suffer much less than copper .
The loss sustained by copper , when rubbed against copper , is infinitely more than that of the former metals ; and , when these are exposed to the action of copper , they , as well as the copper , suffer a very considerable loss .
This appears from the general results of these experiments , which prove , that pieces of metal which are the most subject to wear , are those which produce the greatest loss upon other pieces of metal , when rubbed against them ; and it is remarkable , that in such a case , the loss does not always fall on one in preference to the other ; so that the wear can only be considered in the aggregate , although one of the pieces may be regarded as the principal cause .
In order , however , to illustrate the results of the preceding experiments , as far as they concern the softer and harder kinds of standard gold , and to ascertain more fully the comparative wear of flat and smooth surfaces with that of such as were partly protuberant , the following experiment was made .
Experiment v. In this experiment , two kinds of standard gold were employed , ist .
Gold made standard by fine Swedish copper , which was very ductile ; and , 2dly .
Gold made standard by a mixture of fine Swedish copper and dollar copper .
This was as brittle as was compatible with rolling and stamping ; and was prepared by melting gold made standard by fine Swedish copper , with an equal quantity of gold rendered brittle by the standard proportion of Swedish dollar copper , which was mentioned in the first section of this Paper .
It may here be observed , that a distinction must be made between hard and brittle metal .
If a metal is disposed to crack when rolled , without requiring any extraordinary force to enable it to pass the rollers , then it may be regarded as brittle ; but , if it requires an extraordinary force to make it pass the rollers , and is not disposed to crack , then it may be considered as hard .
The latter quality , or hardness , appears however in some degree to be produced , when a very brittle metal is gradually rendered ductile ; at least it is difficult to distinguish a certain degree of hardness from a certain degree of brittleness , when the extremes of ductility and brittleness are nearly in equilibrio ; and this was found to be the case , when gold was required to be made only so brittle as still to be capable of being rolled and stamped .
Some of the Swedish copper dollars were found to make gold very brittle , when employed as the alloy in standard proportion ; but then this extreme brittle quality was incompatible with rolling and stamping .
The standard gold , therefore , which was thus become so very brittle , was mixed with different proportions of very ductile standard gold , which had been alloyed with fine Swedish copper ; and , after several trials , it appeared , that a mixture of equal parts of the very brittle standard gold and of that which was ductile , formed a metal the best adapted to the present purpose , as it then remained but just sufficiently ductile to be rolled and stamped .
each other , the greatest loss is sustained by the soft gold .
And , ,dly .
That pieces which have raised or embossed surfaces , suffer a greater loss , under every circumstance , than those which are smooth and flat .
The whole of the foregoing experiments were made with the machine called No. i ; and , as the friction was continued , in each experiment , during many days , with a pressure upon each couple of pieces equal to lbs. 8 oz. 12 dts .
and 21 grs. , and as ( considering the severity of such a trial ) the loss sustained by the pieces , separately or collectively , was not very considerable , it may with reason be inferred , that standard gold does not easily suffer abrasion by the friction of metal against metal , or of coin against coin , especially under the circumstances which commonly prevail during the circulation of money .
In the machine No. i , the pieces of gold were opposed face to face ; it now therefore appeared proper , that the facts thus ascertained concerning the wear of gold , of different degrees of ductility , should be farther examined , and corroborated by a different method .
To effect this , the second of the machines before described , which I shall call No. 2 , was employed .
It has been already obscerved , that this machine was a cubic box , of 8 inches withinsi , ule , formed of oak one inch in thickness , through which , a r:'ong axis of iron passed , so as to be turned by a wheel and pi ; a1n .
Experiment with the Machine No. 2 .
Two hundred pieces of gold , of five different qualities , were employed in this experiment ; and it must be previously remarked , that twenty pieces of each kind of gold were plain and smooth , but that the others were stamped with the die which has several times been mentioned .
The two lundred pieces were mingled , and were enclosed within the cubic box .
The following were the qualities of the gold , 1 .
Gold of 23 car .
3 ?
grs. 2 .
Gold made standard by silver .
3 .
Gold made standard by silver and copper .
4 .
Gold made standard by fine Swedish copper .
5 .
Gold made standard by equal parts of fine Swedish copper and dollar copper .
TABLE VII .
Number of revolutions , 71720 .
Weight b Weigheight after Q.uality .
fore friction .
frcton Loss .
Grains .
Grains. .
Grains .
i. Gold 23 car .
3 ?
grs. 20 pieces , unstamped 2716,8 2624 ' 9e,8 Gold 23 car .
34grs .
20 pieces , stamped 691,4 2 95,8 9S,6 7 .
Gold made standard by sil ... ver , o2 pieces , unstamped 1 2719 65 63,5 Gold made standard by silver , 2o pieces , stamped 2722 , i6 2662,5 6o , i g. Gold made standard by siver and copper , 20 pieces , unstamped 2720 2708 1 Gold made standard by silver and copper , 20 pieces , I stamped 2724,7 7137 MD CI .
C_ti.:t. .
: .
a sXI.1 r,7 169 Z7 according to the result of this experiment , they had relatively sustained .
The different pieces , after the experiment , had a curious appearance ; for , on the edges , which were become round and polished , a small regular raised bead or moulding was formed , which surrounded each face , like a frame ; and both faces were become more or less concave .
The original diameter of the pieces was also diminished , nearly according to their different degrees of ductility , and according to the loss which they had experienced in consequence of the operation .
The measure of the diameters of the pieces , after the experiment , was , Gold 23 car .
3grs .
eight-tenths of an inch and 3 ?
40 Gold alloyed with silver , nine-tenths of an inch .
The others varied little from nine-tenths and 4 ; which was less , by about )I of an inch , than the original diameter of the pieces ; and it was evident , that the pieces of fine gold and those consisting of gold alloyed with silver , being the most ductile of the whole series , had suffered the greatest loss , and also that they were those which became the most diminished in diameter , Upon the whole , therefore , considering the general result of this experiment , it appears to corroborate what has been asserted concerning the former experiments , vix .
that soft or ductile gold suffers the greatest loss , when exposed to friction in contact with gold which is comparatively harder .
The effects upon gold of 23 car .
3grs .
and upon gold alloyed with silver , fully prove this ; and , if a perceptible difference was not found between the others , in this experiment , it must be ascribed to the difference in ductility being too small to resist the general effect of the friction Z ?
and , allowing that to be the case , such a difference cannot be deemed worthy of notice .
Before the observations upon the foregoing experiment are concluded , it may be proper to add , that no essential difference between plain and stamped pieces could be observed , when friction was applied in the way abovementioned .
Here terminated the experiments which were intended to ascertain the effects arising from the friction of coin against coin ; but it will probably be better to postpone the general observations upon this part , until the experiments have been described which 'were made with the machine Fig. 3 .
By this apparatus , which may be called No. 3 , various pieces were exposed to the action of certain powders and filings of metals ; which were separately sprinkled upon the horizontal table .
The pieces were properly fixed in their respective sockets and frames , and were placed so as to bear upon the table , with or without additional weights .
The table was moved by a wheel and pinion , so calculated as to avoid too rapid a motion ; and the revolutions were denoted , as in the former experiments , by means of a counter .
Experiments made with the Machine No. 3 .
In the first experiment which was made with this instrument , the table was covered with fine powdered whiting , and the pieces were arranged as follows* Two pieces of ach of the different kinds of gold , &amp;c. were subjected to this eXperiment .
From the result of this experiment it appears , that by the action of a soft powder , such as whiting , fine gold sustained a greater loss than gold made standard by silver ; and again , that this , being more ductile than any of the other kinds of standard gold , suffered more than those ; for it is evident , that the wear produced by this experiment , was in proportion to the softness or ductility of the pieces of metal , those which were comparatively hard , being in general those which were the least abraded .
In the same order also , the difference between plain and stamped surfaces was perceptible .
It must be likewise remarked , that although copper , when rubbed against copper , experiences a much greater loss than either gold or silver , yet , when copper is exposed to the action of a powder like whiting , as in the present experiment , it is , on the contrary , the metal which is abraded in the smallest degree .
Lastly , it may be observed , that this experiment fully proves , that the wear is much greater upon raised or embossed surfaces than upon those which are flat and plain ; and that , in proportion to the ductility of the metal , the difference of wear between plain and stamped pieces becomes more apparent .
The preceding experiment was made with a weight upon each piece , equal to g lbs. 8 oz. 12 dts .
and 21 grs. which was the same as was employed in every experiment made with the machine No. i. But , previous to the following experiment , in which fine white writing-sand was used instead of whiting , it was found , after 5280 revolutions , that no inference could be made when this weight was employed ; for the sand soon began to accumulate upon the faces of the pieces , and adhered like a dark gray or blackish crust , which with great difficulty was detached .
In consequence of this , the wear of the pieces was extremely unequal ; and , towards the conclusion of the experiment , they were so coated by the abovementioned crust , as no longer to be abraded ; and the horizontal wooden table alone experienced the effects of the friction .
After various trials , it was found necessary to remove the leaden weights , = 19825 grains , which had been hitherto always employed .
So that the pieces in the experiment now to be related , were only pressed upon the table by the weight of their respective brass frames , = 1604 grains ; and , in addition to other precautions in this experiment , the sand was not loosely scattered , but was cemented upon the horizontal table by a solution of isinglass .
By these means , the following experiment was made with success.* Experiment ii .
TABLE IX .
Number of revolutions , 880 .
------------- ?
.^ .
, Weight be .
Weight after Quality .
fore friction .
friction Loss Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Gold 23 car._ grs. unstamped 286,7o 268,60 18,10 Gold 23 car .
34 grs. stamped 288,70 286,60 2| o , o1 Gold made standard by silver , unstamped 71-30 254,80 16,50 Gold made standard by silver , stamped 271,40 253,80 17,60 _ ~~~~~~~~~38. .
x7,6o The whole motion of the pieces of coin , in the experiment of Table III .
was about 687000 inches ; while the whole motion of the pieces in the experiment of Table X. was only 62205 .
The weight by which the pieces were pressed was the same in both experiments , so that the pieces sustained eleven times more friction in the former than in the latter experiment .
But it is worthy of notice , that the greater part of the different metals suffered the most considerable diminution by the last mode of examination ; and this may be regarded as an additional instance of the small diminution which metal suffers by being rubbed against metal in a solid form , considered comparatively with that which it suffers when rubbed against the same metal in small particles .
Moreover , it is remarkable , that although the diminution of all the metals which have been examined , excepting silver and copper , is less in the IIId than in the Xth Table , yet that of copper is many times greater .
Mr. CAVENDISH , considering how necessary it was to determine whether there is any material difference , in point of wear , between gold coin entirely of the same quality and that in which the gold is of different qualities , was induced to make the following Table of comparison , formed upon the results stated in Table V. aa 179 To judge from the unstamped pieces , it should seem as if a variation in the quality of the gold tended rather to diminish the wear ; but , from the effects of the stamped pieces , which are more to be regarded , it seems otherwise .
Upon the whole , however , it does not appear to be a matter of much consequence , that the coin should consist entirely of gold of exactly the same quality .
In the following experiment , filings of iron were employed , and were fixed upon the horizontal table by a solution of isinglass .
The leaden weights , and the general arrangement , remained as before .
Experiment Iv .
TABLE XIII , Number of revolutions , 404 .
Walyeight b Weigiht after Qtlality .
fore friction .
friction .
Loss .
Grains .
Grains .
Giains .
Gold 2 , car .
g3 grs. unstamped 276,4o 2 51,40 25 Gold 23 car .
B grs. stamped [ 78,3o ( 251,10 7,20 Gold made standard by silver , .
unstamped 264,9o 244,90 20 Gold made standard by silver , I stamped 265,70 3940 26,30 Gold made standard by silver and copper , unstamped 281,30 258,50 22,80 Gold made standard by silver I and copper , stamped 278,80 252,70 26,1o Gold made standard by fine 26 .
20 30 copper , unstamped 261,2 240,90 20,30 Gold made standard by fine i copper , stamped 239,20 212,30 26,90 a~~~~~~~~~9~._ l , o,..6.,9.oss l81 violent action of the iron filings , resembling that of a rasp , was too powerful to be modified in any very perceptible manner by the different ductility of these pieces ; and , consequently , little or no variation in the wear could be observed , excepting in the pieces of gold reduced to 18 carats by copper , which , being hard when compared with the former , were in some measure better able to resist the effects of the filings .
The following comparative Table of the four preceding experiments , will show , by the near agreement of their general results , that the wear of gold , when exposed to the friction of earthy powders , or metallic filings , is in proportion to the relative degree of ductility .
TABLE XIV .
Comparative Table of the Four preceding Experiments .
Experiment t. Experiment Ix .
Experiment x I. Experiment v , .
Revolutions .
Revolutions .
Revolutions , Revolutions .
I 1880 .
880 .
66o .
404 .
Filings of Whiting , .
Sand .
Standard gold .
Filings of Iron .
Quality of the pieces of gold .
Los .
Loss .
Loss .
Loss .
Gold 23 car .
3_ o,8 o 4,6o 1 , } 97 235 25 } grs. 3,80o 20 10 3o } 13,80 j }27 , 2 Gold madstand .
i6 , o , , 20 ard by silver,7060 3 57,6 3,0 Jj 26,30 Gold made stand , o 01 ard by silver and 0,30 z 10 o } 0,50 48,90 copper.,8o jj 0,4 6 Gold made stando }'064 70 ard by fine co 9 190 240 ?
,6o }47 , per M j~aLP~r~-- ?
_--1~L ?
- ?
-- ?
~ ?
--- ?
--- ?
aa- ' -- ?
-r-- ? ? ? ? ?
~-~311-- ?
..--LI----~--rr-*--- .
- ? .
TABLE XIV .
( continued .
) Experiment s. Experiment xI .
Experiment Itx .
Experiment sv .
Revolution .
Revoutins Revolutions , Revolutions , 11880 .
880 .
66o .
404 .
Filings of Whiting .
Sand , Standard gold .
Filings of Iron , Quality of the pieces of gold .
Loss .
Loss Loss Loss Grains , Grains .
Grains .
Grains .
Gold made standard by equal 0,20 4 11,90 26 0,40 ' , 27,80 parts of fine and I , zo0 14,8o f 0,50 7 040 55z dollar copper O , _ _ 121,90 0,20 OO 10,20 Goldofi caratsj{I }0 030 21,0 o Standard silver { } 2,80 9,880 2 so 0 80 } 6o 1| 40 278 ncopper { | } 80 I| , 0| 6 , 0 Finecopper 0,2 00 00 13J 7,06o J111*lil- .
~~~~ II __ __IR W 1 ? ? ?
?L-Ui- ?
11 ? ?
1 -- ?
-\ ill ? ? ? ?
1 ? ? ?
?lP ?
C.~ When the whole of the preceding experiments , made with the three different machines , are viewed and compared , their general results appear to be as follows .
Ist .
That when equal friction , assisted by a moderate pressure , takes place between pieces of coin which are in each series of a similar quality , then , abrasion is most commonly produced in an inverse ratio to the degree of ductility .
2dly .
That the contrary effect happens , when pieces of different qualities rub against each other ; for then , the more ductile metal is worn by that which is harder.* 3dly .
That earthy powders and metallic filings produce similar effects , and tend to wear the different kinds of gold in proportion to their respective degrees of ductility .
Fine gold , being extremely soft and ductile , sustains a considerable loss , under many of the general circumstances of friction ; and as at all times it appears certain , that the impressions which have been stamped upon it are most easily obliterated , even when actual abrasion does not take place , there is much reason to conclude , that gold of such extreme ductility is not that which is the most proper to be formed into coin .
But gold of the opposite quality , or at least so hard as to be 64 augmente-t'elle on diminue-t'elle la perte qu'elles essuient par le frottement ?
C'est : ss un question qui n'a jamais ete resolve par des experiences directs ; et l'Academie " se propose d'en fair , pour eclairer un fait dont la connoissance peut etre utile , non seulement pour I'art de fabriquer les monnoies , mais pour un grand nombre d'autres .
' Les premieres expe'riences out prouve , que les monnoies d'argent pur perdoient maoins s que les monnoies allides , lorsque lefrottement avoit lieu entre des pieces semblables , " mais qu'elles perdoient davantagte , lorsque le frottement avoit lieu entre les pieces " pures et les pieces alliees .
" Rapport fait a l'Academie des Sciences , le 27 Octobre , 1790o , sir les titres des Metaux monnoies , &amp;c. par MM .
BoRDA , LAGRANGE , LAVOISIER , TILLET , et CONDORCET .
Annzales de Chimie , I793 , Tome XVI .
p. 230 , et 231 .
The effects thus stated to have been produced upon pure and upon alloyed silver , most probably in like manner prevail in respect to gold ; but this cannot be stated as a certain fact ; for , although there is much reason to suppose , that under a small or very moderate pressure , the wear of gold against gold of an equal quality is uniformly in an inverse ratio to the degree of ductility , and allowing that under such circumstances fine gold would suffer a less diminution than gold which is alloyed , yet the present experiments prove , that under a considerable pressure , the order of wear is in some measure different ; for , extremely soft or fine gold is then found to suffer as great , or indeed a greater diminution , than gold which is but moderately ductile : and the whole of the experiments which have been made for the purpose of the present investigation , concur to show , that gold which is neither extremely soft nor extremely hard , is best adapted to resist friction in general .
MIDCCCII IB b.85 just capable of being rolled and stamped , seems to be equally improper for the purpose of coin .
For , even supposing that hard gold suffered , in every case , less by friction than that which is moderately ductile , ( which is not however the fact , ) and allowing that standard gold may , by a mixed alloy , be rendered as hard as gold reduced by copper to 18 carats , wxithout changing the standard proportion of gold , yet it would be very difficult always to make such standard gold of an uniform degree of hardness .
Moreover , by some experiments which I purposely made at the Mint , upon the rolling and stamping of gold of different qualities , it evidently appeared , that gold equal in hardness to that of 18 carats , could not be employed with advantage ; for , the additional labour which was required for the rolling and stamping of this hard gold , the frequent failure in making the impression , and the battering and breaking of the dies , fully proved , that the expense and difficulty attending the working of such gold , would by no means be compensated by any small degree of durability which it might possess over any other .
The extremes of ductility and of hardness being therefore equally objectionable , it follows of course , that gold of moderate ductility must be that which is the best adapted for coin ; and , as nothing but silver or copper can be employed to alloy gold which is intended to be coined , it may be here observed , that whatever might have been the original motive for introducing the present standard of 22 carats , yet it appears , from the experiments lately described , that this proportion of 2 , of the abovementioned metals , is ( every circumstance being considered ) the best , or at least as good as any , which could have been chosen .
There is , however , some difference in the quality of gold , when alloyed with the standard proportion of silver , of silver and copper , and of copper , which requires to be considered .
Gold alloyed with one-twelfth of silver , is of a fine but pale yellow ; it is very ductile ; it is easily rolled , and may be stamped without being annealed ; it consequently does not require to be blanched ; and , after the complete process of coining , the surface and every part remains of an uniform quality , so that , by wear , it does not appear of different colours .
These properties are certainly much to be valued ; but the objections to this kind of standard gold are , ist .
The additional expense attending the use of silver as an alloy .
2dly .
The extreme pale yellow colour .
And , 3dly .
That , from its great ductility , it is almost as liable to have the impressions which have been made upon it obliterated , as those which have been made upon fine gold .
All things being therefore considered , gold alloyed only with silver , does not appear to be so proper for coin as may at first be imagined .
Gold made standard by a mixture of equal parts of silver and copper , is not so soft as gold alloyed only with silver ; neither is it so pale , for it appears to be less removed from the colour of fine gold than either the former or the following metal .
Gold alloyed with silver and copper , when annealed , does not become black , but brown ; and this colour is more easily removed by the blanching liquor , or solution of alum , than when the whole of the alloy consists of copper .
It may also be rolled and stamped with great facility ; and , under many circumstances , it appears to suffer less by friction , than gold alloyed by silver only , or by copper .
But , after it has been subjected to the ordinary friction which must take place during the circulation of money , it is liable to appear of a deeper colour in those parts which are prominent , and are consequently the most exposed to friction .
This defect arises from a cause which will soon be explained , but it cannot be regarded as an objection of any weight .
The last kind of standard gold which remains to be mentioned , is that which is alloyed only by copper .
This is of a much deeper colour than those which have been hitherto noticed , and it is slightly harder than either of them ; but nevertheless it is very ductile , provided that the copper be pure .
It requires to be annealed , and then becomes nearly or quite black ; which colour is not so easily removed by the blanching liquor , as that which is produced by the process of annealing , upon gold alloyed with a mixture of silver and copper .
It suffers less by many of the varieties of friction , than gold which is alloyed with silver ; but , in some cases , it seems to wear rather more than gold alloyed with silver and copper ; the difference is not however very considerable .
This sort of standard gold , as well as that which is alloyed with silver and copper , appears commonly , after a certain degree of wear , of a coppery colour , more or less deep , in those parts which are the most prominent ; and , when coin thus alloyed exhibits such an appearance , it is frequently and vulgarly said to have been in contact with copper money ; and sometimes guineas having this appearance have been refused , upon the supposition that they were debased .
But the real fact is , that when copper constitutes part or the whole of the alloy , it becomes oxidized or calcined upon the surface of the blanks , by the process of annealing ; and the blackish crust of copper , in this state , must then be removed by the solution of alum , called the blanching liquor .
Now it is evident , that after this operation , the surfaces of the blanks or unstamped pieces , can no longer be regarded as standard gold .
For , if copper alone forms the alloy , it must be dissolved and separated from the surface of each piece of coin ; and the same effect must also take place , with respect to the copper , in the alloy formed of copper and silver .
So that , in the first case , each piece , when blanched , will consist of gold made standard by copper , covered with a thin coat of fine gold ; and , in the second case , each piece will be composed of gold made standard by silver and copper , coated with gold alloyed with 1-T of silver , or with half of the standard proportion of alloy , supposing the silver and copper to have been in equal quantities .
As , therefore , the standard gold of which the pieces consist , is always , more or less , of a deeper colour than the coating or film of the finer gold which covers each piece , it must be evident , that when this coating has been rubbed and removed from the raised or prominent parts , these will appear of a very different and deeper colour than the flat part or ground of the coin .
The reason therefore is sufficiently apparent , why gold which is alloyed with silver only , cannot be liable to this blemish .
Upon a comparison of the different qualities of the three kinds of standard gold which have been lately mentioned , it appears , ( strictly speaking , ) that gold made standard by silver and copper is rather to be preferred for coin ; but , as gold made standard by copper alone is not very much inferior in its general properties , it may be questioned , whether the few advantages which are thus gained , will compensate the additional expense of the silver required for half of the alloy ; and , indeed , any extraordinary addition of silver appears to be the less necessary , as there is commonly some silver in the gold which is sent to the Mint , which , being reckoned as part of the alloy , contributes to produce those beneficial effects which result when silver is purposely added .
From a general view of the present experiments , there does not appear to be any very great or remarkable difference in the comparative wear of the three kinds of standard gold , all of which suffer abrasion slowly , and with much difficulty ; and ( as it has been already observed ) the difference of wear between the two last mentioned , is certainly but inconsiderable .
For these reasons , and from the consideration of every other circumstance , it must be evident , that the extraordinary loss which the gold coin of this kingdom is stated to have sustained within a certain limited time , cannot , with even a shadow of probability , be attributed to any important defect in the composition or quality of the standard gold ; and all that can be said upon this subject is , that some portion of this loss may have been caused by the rough impression and milled edge now in use , by which , each piece of coin acts , and is acted upon by the others , in the manner of a file .
The loss thus occasioned cannot however be considerable ; for the quality of the present standard gold is certainly that which is well adapted to resist abrasion , especially in the case of the friction of coin against coin ; and this is strongly corroborated by the observations of bankers and others , who are in the habit of sending or receiving large quantities of gold coin from any considerable distance .
When a number of guineas , rather loosely packed , have been long shaken together by the motion of a coach or other carriage , the effects of friction are observed chiefly to fall upon only a few of the pieces .
But it is not a little remarkable , that although these are often reduced nearly or quite to the state of plain pieces of metal or blanks , yet , upon being weighed , they are found to have sustained little or no loss ; and from this it appears , that the impressions have been obliterated , not by an actual abrasion of the metal , but by the depression of the prominent parts , which have been forced into the mass , and become reduced to a level with the ground of the coin .
Pieces of hard gold would not so easily suffer by depression ; but the real loss would probably be greater , they bning , in the case of the friction of coin against coin of similar quality , more susceptible of abrasion .
Upon the whole , there is every reason to believe , that our gold coin suffers but little by friction against itself ; and the chief cause of natural and fair wear probably arises from extraneous and gritty particles , to the action of which the pieces may occasionally be exposed in the course of circulation .
But still it must be repeated , that the united effects of every species of friction to which they may be subjected , fairly and unavoidably , during circulation , cannot produce any other wear than that which is extremely gradual and slow , and such as will by no means account for the great and rapid diminution which has ; been .
observed in the gold coin of this .
country .
As the general results of each part of this inquiry have been ' noticed at the close of the different sections , a regular recapitulation would be superfluous , We may however observe , that the experiments on the various alloys of standard gold , concur with establiszed practice and opinion to prove , that only two of the metals , viz. silver and copper , are proper to be employed in 191 the reduction of fine gold to standard for the purpose of coin ; but , at the same time , it must be allowed , that the phenomena exhibited by arsenic , antimony , zinc , cobalt , nickel , manganese , bismuth , lead , tin , iron , and platina , are in many respects remarkable , and demonstrate the utility of a regular experimental investigation of metallic alloys .
The contents of the second section show , that numerous causes influence the specific gravity of metals ; and , amongst these , it has been long ago observed , that some metals , when added to others , generally produce contraction in the bulk of the mass , or an increase of specific gravity , but that other metals produce effects which are precisely the reverse .
This , to a certain extent , is unquestionably true ; but it does not follow that each metal which produces contraction or expansion , when added to others , should ( as some have supposed ) constantly produce similar effects , corresponding to the relative proportion of that particular metal ; for we well know that some metals , in like manner , promote the fusibiiity of others in a much greater degree than could be expected from their natural or inherent fusible property ; but then , the maximum of this effect is produced by certain proportions of the different metals , and suffers diminution by any variation in these proportions .
It appears , therefore , that this great degree of fusibility , is a property peculiar to the compound , which cannot immediately be attributed to either of the component metals ; and I am much deceived , if those alterations in specific gravity which , in like manner , are observed in the various metallic compounds , will not admit of a similar explanation ; for , in respect to the contraction or expansion which takes place in consequence of combination , we may believe , that there is a maximum of this contraction or expansion , dependent on a certain relative proportion of the different metals .
The experiments on the comparative wear of gold , which are described in the last section , were attended with considerable difficulties ; for this reason , the conclusions have been founded only upon such facts as were uniformly the same under every circumstance .
These general conclusions have been already fully stated ; but we may again observe , that gold of moderate ductility is ( all things being considered ) the best adapted to the purpose of coin , and that the real wear of such coin is , in all probability , very slowly effected ; so that a long period of time must elapse , before any considerable diminution in weight can be perceived .
The experiments contained in these three sections were limited to standard gold ; and , allowing that some curious and instructive facts have been discovered , still more might have been expected from an extension of such experiments to gold variously alloyed in every possible proportion .
But an immense addition to metallurgical science would , in all probability , be derived from a comparative investigation of the whole of the known metallic substances , formed into binary , ternary , and such like combinations , proceeding from the most simple to the most complicated , and accompanied by accurate observations on the lustre , colour , ductility , hardness , specific gravity , and-fusibility of the compoun.ds .
Our actual knowledge of the properties of metallic mixtures is certainly very imperfect , and has by no means kept pace with the rapid progress of modern chemistry .
Few additions have been made to the compound metals employed by the ancients .
The various mixtures of gold and silver , called electrum , * those of the Corinthian metal , t the varieties of bronze , the compound of copper and zinc now called brass , ?
the metal for specula , l the metal called argentarium , t ( in some measure answering to our pewter , ) the art of plating and of tinning , * and the process of amalgamation , tf evince how great a progress had been made by the ancients in the mixing and working of metals .
Much , however , remains to be done , and much may be expected , from a regular and systematical series of experiments on the properties of compound metals .
For , exclusively of the immediate application of many of the alloys to economical purposes , it cannot be doubted that science will derive other considerable advantages ; our ideas concerning the properties of the metals , whether simple or mixed , will be much enlarged , and clouds of errors , with the traditionary prejudices which as yet shade this branch of human knowledge , will be dispersed .
* PLINUS , lib. xxxii .
cap. iv .
f PLAN .
lib. xxxv .
cap. ii .
I Ibid. and cap. ix . ?
P LN .
lib. xxxIv .
cap. x. l PL N. lib. XXXI , cap , ix .
and lib. xxxiv .
cap. xvii .
T Ibido on the specific Gravity , and on the comparative Wear of Gold .
Being the Substance of a Report made to the Right Honourable the Lords of the Committee of Privy Council , appointed to take into Consideration the State of the Coins of this Kingdom , and the present Establishment and Constitution of his Majesty 's Mint .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F. R. S. Read January 13 , 1803 .
LirST of the COMMITTEE appointed on the loth of February , 1798 , to take into Consideration the State of the Coins of this Kingdom .
EARL OF LIVERPOOL , PRESIDENT .
tree iLORD HIGH CHANCELLOR OF GREAT BRITAIN .
THE LORD PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL .
THE LORD PRIVY SEAL .
HIS MAJESTY'S PRINCIPAL SECRETARIES OF STATE .
THE MASTER GENERAL OF THE ORDNANCE .
THE FIRST LORD COMMISSIONER OF THE ADMIRALTY .
THE FIRST LORD COMMISSIONER OF HIS MAJEST'YS TR1EASURBY , AND CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER .
HIS MAJESTY'S SECRETARY AT WAR .
HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF MONTROSE .
THE LORD CIIEF JUSTICE OF HIS MAJESTY'S C , OUIT OF KING'S BENCH .
GC 43 3 THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS .
THE MASTER OF THE ROLLS .
THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE OF HIS MAJESTY'S COURT OF COMMON PLEAS .
THE LORD CHIEF BARON OF HIS MAJESTY'S COURT OF EXCHEQUER .
THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL FOR TRADE .
THE RIGHT HON .
SIR JOSEPH BANKS , BART .
K. B. THE RIGHT HON .
SIR WILLIAM WIN .
TI-E RIGHT HON .
SYLVESTER DOUGLAS , INTRODUCTION .
THE Lords of the Committee of his Majesty 's most honourable Privy Council , appointed by his Majesty , on the loth of February , 1798 , to take into consideration the state of the coins of this kingdom , having among other circumstances remarked the considerable loss which the gold coin appeared to have sustained by wear within certain periods , and being desirous to ascertain whether this loss was occasioned by any defect , either in the quality of the standard gold or in the figure or impression of the coins , were pleased to request that HENRY CAVENDISH , Esq. F. R. S. and myself would examine , by such experiments as should be deemed requisite , whether any of these defects really existed .
Two questions were to be principally decided , ist .
Whether very soft and ductile gold , or gold made as hard as is compatible with the process of coining , suffers the most by wear , under the various circumstances of friction to which coin is subjected in the course of circulation ? ?
2dly .
Whether coin with a flat , smooth , and broad surface , wears less than coin which has certain protuberant parts raised above the ground or general level of the pieces ?
Concerning the first question , opinions were various , and the most intelligent persons were uncertain whether very soft or hard gold was to be preferred ; and , in respect to the second question it must be observed , that although the prevalent opinion was in favour of flat and smooth surfaces , yet , as the fact had never been fully and satisfactorily determined , this opportunity was embraced , in order that every doubt might be remroved .
The great value of the material , had hitherto prevented private individuals from ascertaining these facts by experiment ; and , as a public concern , this subject of investigation , although so important to political economy and to science , does not appear to have been noticed by any European government , until the Right Honourable and enlightened Members of the abovementioned Committee proposed the inquiry , and furnished the requisite means for making the experiments.* At the request of Mr. CAVENDIsH , I have written the following account ; but I should be highly unjust and ungrateful to that gentleman , did I not here publicly acknowledge how great a portion truly belongs to him , of any merit which these experiments may be found to possess : for , at all times , I was favoured with his valuable advice ; and the machines to produce friction , as well as the dies , were entirely contrived by himself .
At the same time , I wish it to be understood , that I alone am to be considered as responsible for any inaccuracies of the experiments .
Lastly , before I proceed , I must take this opportunity to acknowledge my obligations to JAMES MORRISON , Esq. the Deputy Master of the Mint , to Mr. JAMES MORRISON , his son , to ROBERT BINGLEY , Esq. his Majesty 's Assay Master , and to Messrs. ATKINSON and NIcHOLL , of the Corporation of Moneyers , for the ready assistance and polite attention which I received from those gentlemen , during the long series of experiments made at the Mint .
SECTION I. ON THE VARIOUS ALLOYS OF GOLD .
The wear of coin is an effect produced by mechanical causes , subject to be modified by certain physical properties , such as ductility and hardness , which vary in degree , according to the chemical effects produced by different metallic substances , when employed in certain proportions as alloys .
From these considerations , it appears proper , First , to exam ?
in the effects which the various metals produce upon gold , when combined with it in given proportions , beginning with yT~ , which is the standard proportion of alloy , and in certain cases gradually decreasing to of a grain in the ounce Troy , or I.Tjo part of the mass .
Secondly , to examine the specific gravity of gold differently alloyed , and the causes of certain variations to which it is liable .
And , thirdly , to ascertain the effects of friction variously modified GOLD ALLOYED WITH ARSENIC .
Experiment I. Eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains ( 5307 grs. ) of gold , 23 carats $3 grs. fine , being completely melted , eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains ( = 453 grs. ) of pure metallic arsenic were added , and the whole being rapidly stirred , was quickly poured into a greased mould of iron .
The bar was of the colour of fine gold , and , although brittle , yet it bent in some measure before it broke .
It weighed eleven ounces one pennyweight and nine grains ; so that , of 18 dts , 21 grs. of arsenic , only six grains remained in combination with the gold ; consequently , 18 dts .
15 grs. had been volatilized .
Experiment II .
As the fine gold , in the foregoing experiment , retained so very small a portion of the arsenic , it appeared possible that copper might assist to fix that volatile substance .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold in fusion , nineteen grains of pure copper were added , being half the weight of the standard proportion of alloy .
When the copper was perfectly melted , and , by stirring , had been well incorporated with the gold , the crucible was removedand at that moment nineteen grains of arsenic were added , and being quickly stirred , the metal was immediately poured into a mould .
The time which elapsed from the raising of the crucible to the pouring of the metal , was rather less than one minute ; but , upon weighing the ingot , it appeared that the wh-ole of the 19 grains of arsenic had been volatilized ; and this was corroborated by the perfect ductility which the gold was found to possess .
In this experiment , the whole of the arsenic was separated ; and we may conclude , that it is always difficult to combine arsenic with gold by mere addition in open vessels , and that when to a small quantity of gold in fusion , a small quantity of arsenic is added , it is immediately dissipated by the violence of the heat ; but , if large quantities are employed , and the metal is poured as soon as possible after the addition of the arsenic , then , according to circumstances , a small portion may remain combined with the gold .
It is well known that arsenic may be easily combined with gold and other metals , when in fusion , by employing a mixture of oxide of arsenic and black flux , and performing the operation in close vessels ; but the following experiment will prove , that arsenic may at all times be combined with gold , provided the latter , when it loses its heat and congeals , is surrounded by arsenical vapour .
Experiment iii .
480 grains of fine gold were put into a four-inch crucible , which was then placed within a large one that measured about 12 incles .
At the bottom of this last , and on the outside of the small crucible , one ounce of metallic arsenic was placed , and another large crucible was then closely luted , with its mouth inverted upon that of the lower one .
The whole was exposed to a strong heat in a wind-furnace , during two hours , after which , the vessels were suffered gradually to become cold .
Upon removing the upper crucible , which formed the dome , some white oxide of arsenic was found adhering to the inverted bottom of it .
gdly .
The remainder of the metallic arsenic coated the bottom of the inferior large crucible .
gdly .
On the sides of the upper crucible or dome were several small globules of gold .
And , 4thly .
The button of gold in the small crucible , although unchanged in external appearance , was found to be extremely brittle , and , when broken , the fracture appeared of a coarse grain , and of a gray colour .
The button weighed 481,5 grs. so that , exclusive of the gold which had been volatilized , there was an increase of the original weight , amounting to i,5 gr. When arsenic is by any means combined with gold , it is not easy to separate it totally by mere heat ; for , although this button was twice kept in strong fusion , during one hour each time , in an open crucible , it still retained some arsenic , and continued to be brittle .
From this last experiment it is evident , that a considerable degree of affinity prevails between gold and arsenic ; but , as the latter is immediately volatilized at the instant of contact with melted gold , it cannot easily be combined with it when open vessels are employed , and when the arsenic is simply added to the gold in fusion , while so great a degree of heat is continued .
This volatility of arsenic is , on the contrary , in favour of the combination when the operation is performed in close vessels ; for , as arsenic is reduced to a state of vapour by heat much inferior to that which is requisite to the fusion of gold , and as this vapour remains included during the melting and cooling of the gold , it necessarily follows , that the gold is cooled , and becomes solid , while immersed in the arsenical atmosphere , so that the state of the gold , the extreme division of the arsenic , and the gradual cooling of the vessels , in every way promote the union of the two metals .
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTS UPON GOLD AND ARSENIC .
Since the above experiments were written , I was induced to examine what effects would be produced by arsenic , in the state of vapour , upon red-hot plates of standard gold , the alloy of which was copper .
With the assistance of Mr. BINGLEY , I therefore made the following experiments .
I. Two six-inch crucibles were ground so as to fit close when the mouth of one was inverted upon the other .
Within the upper crucible or dome , a plate of the standard gold , which was 2j inches long , 1l broad , and -c thick , and slightly bent , was suspended by a strong iron wire ; and one ounce of metallic arsenic was put into the lower crucible .
The vessels were then closely luted , and were placed in an open fire , so that they became of a full red heat ; they were kept in this state about ie or 15 minutes , after which , they were removed from the fire , and when cold were opened .
I then found , that although the heat had been so very much inferior to that which is requisite to cause the fusion of gold , yet , in the present case , some very extraordinary effects had been produced ; for the arsenic , which had been resolved into vapour , had acted upon the red hot plate of gold , and had combined with every part of its surface ; but the combination so formed , being extremely fusible , had immediately separated from the remaining plate of metal , and had fallen into the lower crucible , where it had formed an ingot or button .
This ingot was internally of a gray colour , * and was extremely brittle ; but the plate from which the portion of gold had been separated , remained perfectly ductile , and did not retain any of the arsenic ; for , although it was superficially discoloured , it was unchanged in every other respect , excepting that the sharpness of its edges was destroyed , and the thickness was reduced from x of an inch to that of common writing paper .
The effects produced by the arsenic , in this experiment , were very remarkable ; for the plate was as uniformly and evenly reduced in its thickness as if it had been planed ; and , while the portion which had dropped from it was combined with a very large quantity of arsenic , the remaining part of the plate appeared to have preserved the whole of its original ductility and purity .
These singular effects took place , as I have already observed , in so short a time as 12 or 15 minutes ; but I wished to ascertain whether the same would not happen , more or less , within a smaller period , and under circumstances not so favourable to the union of arsenic with gold .
II , Two six-inch crucibles were fitted , and inverted in the manner already described , and a plate of the standard gold , similar in size and quality to that which had been employed in the first experiment , was in like manner suspended within the upper crucible or dome .
A semicircular piece was cut out of the lip of this crucible , so that , when inverted and luted upon the lower vessel , there was an aperture of about 1inch in diameter , which was loosely stopped with a piece of charcoal , and the crucibles , being firmly luted , were as before placed in an open fire .
When the vessels appeared of a full red heat , they were taken out , and , being placed upon the pavement of the laboratory , about half an ounce of metallic arsenic was quickly introduced through the aperture that has been mentioned , which was again closed , although very imperfectly , by a piece of charcoal .
The arsenic immediately began to produce flame and fumes , which partially escaped through the opening ; in about five minutes , the crucibles ceased to appear red-hot , and the greater part of the arsenic was dissipated .
Upon separating the crucibles , the plate of gold was found entire , but it was much discoloured ; and the portion of gold which had combined with the arsenic , had trickled to the edges of the plate , where it became accumulated , and would soon have dropped into the lower crucible , had it not been for the short duration of the heat .
The plates of gold which were employed in the two experiments , had been annealed , and were remarkably ductile ; and it has already been observed , that the part of the plate which remained after the first experiment , completely retained its original ductility ; but the plate which had been employed in the second experiment , although not brittle , was become less flexible .
The cause of this difference was very apparent ; for , in the first experiment , the whole of the gold combined with arsenic had , by the continuance of the heat , been enabled to flow from the remaining part of the plate of standard gold , which , although thus reduced in size , retained none of the arsenic .
In the second experiment , on the contrary , the heat ceased , almost as soon as a portion of the arsenic had united with the gold ; and the whole surface of the plate , therefore , remained thinly coated with arsenicated gold , by which , a certain degree of rigidity was produced .
These experiments prove , that arsenic , in the state of vapour , will readily combine with gold , even when the latter is only raised to a common red heat .
But the whole substance of the gold is not , in this case , immediately and completely pervaded by the arsenic ; for it appears , that the combination of these two metals , being extremely fusible , immediately flows , and is separated from the remaining part of the mass of gold , provided that the original degree of heat be not very speedily checked ; but , when this happens , the mass or plate of gold remains coated with the arsenicated compound .
The effects which ( according to these experiments ) metallic arsenic appears to produce upon gold in a red heat , may in a great measure be compared to those which are observed when sulphur , or phosphorus , is combined with various metallic substances .
GOLD ALLOYED WITH ANTIMONY .
Experiment I. To eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of gold , 23 car .
32 grs. fine , in perfect fusion , eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of pure antimony were added , and , being well mixed , the whole was poured into a mould of iron .
This mixture had in some degree acted upon the surface of the mould ; for it was with difficulty that the bar could be removed ; and , when this was effected , the internal seirface of the mould appeared corroded in some parts , and , as it were , inlaid by the mixed metal .
Upon weighing the bar , it was found that only 15 pennyweights of the antimony remained combined with the gold ; so that three pennyweights and twenty-one grains had been dissipated .
This metal was of a dull pale colour , not very unlike tutenague ; it was excessively brittle , and in the fracture appeared of an ash colour , with a fine close grain , somewhat resembling that of porcelain .
Experiment iI .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , in fusion , nineteen grains of copper were added , which being melted and well mixed , nineteen grains of antimony were also added ; after which , the metal was poured into a mould .
The external colour of the button was like gold made standard by copper ; it was very brittle , and , in the colour and grain of the fracture , resembled the result of the preceding experiment .
Experiment III .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , were alloyed with one pennyweight and six grains of copper , and afterwards eight grains of antimony were added , to complete the standard proportion of alloy ; the mixture was then poured , as expeditiously as possible , into a mould .
The ingot resembled that of the former experiment , in every particular , excepting that the grain of the fracture was more coarse , although it was still devoid of metallic lustre .
Experiment iv .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , were alloyed with one pennyweight and ten grains of copper , and , when in perfect fusion , four grains of antimony were added .
The external colour of the ingot was like that of Experiments II .
and IIL It was very brittle , andL the grain of the fracture was similar to Exper .
IIi .
excepting that it showed a small degree of metallic lustre , Experiment v. To one ounce sixteen pennyweights and twenty grains of the fine gold , alloyed with three pennyweights and three grains of copper , one grain of antimony was added , and the mixture was treated as before .
The antimony , in this mass , was in the proportion of only half a grain in each ounce ; but the ingot was completely brittle , and the fracture still showed a close grain , although the metallic lustre now began to be more apparent .
Experiment vi .
The two ounces of the metal formed by the preceding experiment , were added to two ounces of gold made standard by fine copper .
The proportion of antimony , in this experiment , could at most be estimated only at of a grain in the ounce ; but , as it may be supposed that , by the repeated meltings , some of the antimony had been volatilized , it probably was in a less proportion .
The ingot formed by this experiment was , in colour , and in other properties , very like that of Expere v. It was , however , in a slight degree less brittle , as it did not so immediately break tinder the hammer .
The foregoing experiments prove , that L of a grain of antimony in the ounce , or Tqj part of the mass , can destroy the ductility of gold .
The following experiments were made to ascertain the effects of the vapour or fumes of antimony upon gold , when close and when open vessels were employed .
Experiment vir .
480 grains of fine gold were exposed , in close vessels , to the fumes of about 480 grains of antimony , under circumstances similar to those described in the third experiment upon arsenic .
When the crucibles were unluted , the chief part of the antimony was found , unchanged , at the bottom of the inferior large crucible .
The button of gold in the small crucible was not altered in the external colour , but proved to be extremely brittle , for it immediately split under the hammer , and exhibited a close grained earthy fracture , of an ash colour .
After the experiment , the button weighed 483,9 grs. ; so that it had acquired 3,9 grs. of antimony .
Experiment VII .
A small four-inch crucible , containing 480 grains of fine gold , was placed within another , of 12 inches ; and four ounces of antimony were put into the large outer crucible , as soon as the gold appeared to be perfectly melted .
When half an hour had elapsed , the small crucible was removed , and the gold was poured into a mould .
The button was externally of a dull brownish colour , and was very brittle .
From the two last experiments , it may be inferred , that gold , when melted in close , and even in open vessels , attracts and combines with antimony in the state of vapour .
GOLD ALLOYED WITH ZINC .
Experiment .
I Eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of gold , J3 car .
g grs. fire , wrere melted , after which , eigteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of zinc were added , and , being quickly stirred , the whole was poured into a mould of iron .
Upon the addition of the zinc , a brig-1t flame immediately arose ; and , although as little time as possible was lost , yet , upon weighing the bar , it appeared , that in this short period , five pennyweights and twenty-one grains of zinc had been volatilized , and that only thirteen pennyweights remained combined with the gold .
The bar was of a pale greenish yellow , like brass , and was totally devoid of ductility .
Experiment ii .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , were alloyed with 19 grains of copper , to which , when completely melted , 19 grains of zinc were added , and , being expeditiously mixed , the metal was poured into a mould .
The external colour of the ingot , was pale yellow ; it was * It has been proved , that arsenic will not combine readily with gold in open vessels ; but the reverse was observed when antimony , zinc , and some other metals , were reduced to vapour in the vicinity of melted gold .
This effect appears to depend on the relative affinities of the different metals with gold and with caloric .
very brittle , and , like the former bar , exhibited a coarse grai in the fracture .
Experiment iii .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , were alloyed with one pennyweight and six grains of copper , and , when in fusion , eight grains of zinc were added .
This experiment was conducted as quickly as possible ; but nevertheless , upon weighing the ingot , it appeared that the whole of the zinc had been volatilized ; and this was farther proved , by the colour , and by the perfect ductility of the metal .
Experiment iv .
To eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of the fine gold , in fusion , eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of fine brass wire were added , and mixed as before .
The external and internal colour was of a fine pale yellow ; but the metal was very brittle , and the grain of the fracture was coarse .
Experiment v. To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of gold , alloyed with ig grains of copper , in fusion , were added 19 grains of fine brass .
This ingot did not , in general properties , differ from the former .
The following experiment was made , to ascertain the effects of zinc upon gold , when the two metals were melted in open vessels , near each other , without being in absolute contact .
Experiment vI .
One ounce of fine gold was melted in a four-inch crucible , which had been previously placed within another , of li inches .
As soon as the gold was in complete fusion , about four ounces of zinc were put into the large crucible .
A considerable flame , accompanied by a large quantity of white oxide of zinc , immediately arose , and part of the oxide adhered to the interior of the large crucible .
Within half an hour , the crucible containing the gold was removed , and was suffered to cool .
Upon examining the button , it appeared , that a portion of the volatilized zinc was combined with the gold ; for the surface was dull , and of a Spanish snuff colour ; moreover , it proved to be very brittle , similar to the former results .
From these experiments , it is evident , that zinc is highly injurious to the ductility of gold ; tiat a portion of it is easily separated from gold by heat ; that , when a large quantity of gold is alloyed with the standard proportion of zinc , only part of the latter is speedily volatilized , but , when small quantities are treated , the whole of the zinc becomes separated , and the gold remains pure ; that , if zinc is previously combined with copper in the state of brass , it is not so easily separated by heat , when added to melted gold ; and , lastly , that gold in fusion absorbs and retains a portion of zinc , when exposed to the latter metal in a volatilized state , even in open vessels .
GOLD ALLOYED WITH COBALT .
Experiment I. The effects produced by cobalt upon gold , do not appear to have been hitherto investigated ; for this reason , the following experiments were made .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of gold , 23 car .
grs. fine , when in fusion , one pennyweight and fourteen IX 59 grains of pure metallic cobalt were added , and , being well melted and mixed , the whole was poured into a dry cupel .
The exterial colo)ur of this metal was a dull yellow ; it was very brittle , and the fracture appeared of a pale yellow , with ai earthy grain .
Experiment ii .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , alloyed with 19 grains of pure copper , were added 19 grains of metallic cobalt , which being perfectly melted and mixed , the whole was treated as before .
The metallic button , externally , appeared of a pale yellow , slightly tinged with gray ; it was brittle , and showed a finegrained earthy fracture , Experiment iII .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , alloyed with one pennyweight and six grains of copper , being melted , eight grains of cobalt were added , and mixed .
The colour of this ingot was like that of the former , but the yellow colour was rather deeper .
It soon broke under the hammer , and the fracture was still of a fine grain , inclining to an earthy appearance .
Experiment iv .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of gold , alloyed with one pennyweight and ten grains of copper , four grains of cobalt were added .
The colour of this metal resembled that of gold made standard by copper , excepting that it was rather paler .
This ingot was but slightly brittle .
As the last metal began to be ductile , the experiments with cobalt were not continued .
GOLD ALLOYED WITH NICKEL .
Experiment I. Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , were alloyed with one pennyweight and fourteen grains of pure metallic nickel , and the whole was then poured into a cupel .
This button was of the colour of fine brass ; it immediately broke under the hammer , with a coarse-grained earthy fracture .
Experiment It .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of fine gold , being alloyed with 19 grains of copper , were afterwards melted , and mixed with 19 grains of pure nickel .
The external colour of this metal resembled gold made standard by copper , but was paler in a slight degree .
It was brittle , and showed a fine-grained fracture , of an earthy appearance .
Experiment II .
Eighteen pennyweights of the fine gold , alloyed with one pennyweight and six grains of copper , being melted , eight grains of nickel were added , and mixed as before .
The colour of the ingot was like that of the former experiment , and the metal proved to be only slightly brittle .
Experiment iv .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of fine gold , alloyed with one pennyweight and ten grains of copper , when in fusion , were added four grains of nickel .
The colour of this button was like that of gold made standard by copper , and , under the hammer and rollers , it was found to be perfectly ductile .
From these and the following experiments it appears , that , of all those which have been improperly called semimetals , nickel is that which is the least injurious to the colour and ductility of gold .
GOLD ALLOYED WITH MANGANESE , From what is at present known , it does nt appear that this combination has till now been made , Experiment I. 480 grains of gold , 23 car .
${ grs. fine , being put into a crucible , were covered with about half anl ounce of pure black oxide of manganese .
The crucible was then exposed to a strong heat , in a wind furnace , during one hour and an half ; but not any alteration was thus produced in the properties of the gold .
Experiment Ii .
A quantity of olive-oil was several times mixed , and burned , with some of the oxide of manganese , after wiich , about one ounce of the oxide was put into a crucible lined with charcoal .
A piece of fine gold , weighing one ounce , was then placed in the middle of the oxide , over which a stopper of charcoal was put , and the whole was closed by a cover , firmly luted .
After a strong heat of one hour and an half , the crucible was removed , and , when cold , was broken .
The manganese , in which the gold had been embedded , still remained in a pulverulent state , but , from black , was changed to a dark green .
The button of gold at the bottom of the crucible was of a pale colour ; it soon broke under the han mer , and showed a spongy coarse-grained fracture .
Experiment IIn .
From the effects last mentioned , it was evident that manganese could be thus combined with gold ; the experiment was therefore repeated , and the heat was continued during three hours , at the end of which time the crucible began to be melted.* Upon breaking the crucible , which had been suffered to cool in the furnace , the manganese was found to be pulverulent in some parts , and indurated in others .
There were not any metaliic globules to be seen ; and the colour varied from dark to pale grass green .
The button of gold at the bottom of the crucible was uniform , and externally of a pale yellowish gray colour , with a considerable lustre , almost equal to that of polished steel .
On that part of the button which had been next to the bottom of the crucible , were some specks of pale green enamel .
The metal possessed a small degree of ductility , although extremely hard , for , when placed upon an anvil , being repeatedly struck with a heavy hammer , the button was in some measure flattened , before it could be broken .
The fracture was coarse , very spongy , and of a reddish gray colour ; and many cavities , in the interior of the mass , were filled with the dark green coloured manganese .
It has been generally observed , that metals , when combined with manganese , are liable to a speedy change and diminution of lustre , colour , &amp;c. when exposed to the air ; but gold alloyed in the manner abovementioned , did not suffer ( even when several months had elapsed ) any perceptible alteration .
Mr. BINGLEY , who was always obligingly ready to assist in these experiments , at my request , examined the habits of this combination of manganese with gold , by the usual process of assaying .
He found that the manganese was completely metallized , and combined with the gold , but not in an exactly equal proportion throughout the mass ; for , in one part the manganese amounted to - , and in another to .
The gold defends the manganese , in the metallic state , from the action of those acids which usually dissolve it .
When the mixed metal is exposed to a great heat , with free access of air , it loses its metallic lustre , and is covered with a dark brown oxide .
24 carats of the metal , which had been exposed to a considerable heat under a muffle , acquired of its weight .
Another time , under similar circumstances , it acquired of its original weight ; but this proportion of ooygen disposed it to vitrify , and the mass was fixed to the cupel by a dark blue enamel .
Nitric or sulphuric acid alone , cannot completely dissolve this oxide ; but , a little sugar being added to the nitric acid , enables it superficialy to dissolve the oxide , and to separate it from the gold , which then remaits clean , and of its natural colour ; yet the manganese has only thus been removed from the surface , for , when the mass is cut , the interior exhibits the original gray colotr of the mixed metal .
The gold may be purified from the manganese by lead alone , if there is heat and lead sufficient ; but this may be nor conpletely and certainly performed , by the mixture of silver , and separation by nitric acid , As soon as the fine metals are in fusion , the manganese floats upon the surface of the lead , is gradually vitrified , and is absorbed by the cupel , which becomes tinged with a dark blackishbrown colour throughout the whole of its substance ; and it must be observed , that this tinge is very different from that afforded by any other metal with which gold may be alloyed .
The cupels on which the manganese has been separated frot gold by lead , are corroded in deep holes , by the compound of manganese and lead ; an effect which is never observed when copper , or any other of the alloys of gold are destroyed by lead .
The mixture of gold and manganese is more difficult of fusion than gold alone ; yet , when the heat is continued with access of air , the whole of the manganese becomes oxidized , and remains on the surface ; and , when the mass is cold , it may be separated from the pure gold which is underneath , by the blow of a hammer .
24 carats of the mixed metal , which had acquired of its weight by the absorption of oxygen , was reduced in close vessels , by fusing it with charcoal and oil , as already described .
The manganese again became metallized , and was again combined with the gold , to which it communicated the gray colour and brittleness of the original metal ; and the button weighed nearly as at first , viz. 24 carats .
The solution of the mixed metal in nitro-muriatic acid , when evaporated to dryness , leaves a light or pale orange-coloured spongy mass , not so readily deliquescent as the evaporated solutions of pure gold , which are also of a much deeper colour .
The solution of the mixed metal affords , by ammonia , a mixed precipitate , composed of yellow and white particles ; but the mixture of manganese , in this precipitate , does not appear to diminish , or in any way affect , the fulminating property of the gold .
GOLD ALLOYED WITH BISMUTH .
Experiment i. To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of gold , 23 car . ?
grs. fine , when in perfect fusion , were added one pennyweight and fourteen grains of pure bismuth .
The external colour of the metal was pale greenish yellow , like that of bad brass .
It immediately broke under the hammer , and showed a finegrained earthy fracture .
Experiment II .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , were alloyed with one pennyweight and six grains of copper , after which , eight grains of bismuth were added .
The ingot appeared , externally , of a pale brownish yellow ; it was very brittle , and the fracture was like that of the former , excepting that the grain was not so fine .
Experiment itI .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of fine gold , were alloyed with one pennyweight and ten grains of copper , and four grains of bismuth were then added , to complete the standard proportion of alloy .
This metal was , in colour , like gold made standard by copper ; it was very brittle , but the grain was coarse .
Experiment iv .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of gold , alloyed with one pennyweight and thirteen grains of copper , one grain of bismuth was added .
The colour of the metal was like that of Exper .
in .
it was very brittle , and , in the fracture , showed a much coarser grain .
Experiment v. Eighteen pennyweights of the fine gold , alloyed with one pennyweight and fourteen grains of copper , being completely melted , the button formed by Exper .
iv .
was added , and mixed .
In the two ounces of metal , one grain only of bismuth was present ; nevertheless , the ingot was extremely brittle , and the grain of the fracture was remarkably coarse and spongy .
Experiment vi .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of fine gold , alloyed with one pennyweight and fourteen grains of copper , when in fusion , one ounce of the metal formed by E.per .
v. was added .
There now was , at most , not more than 4 of a grain of bismuth in each ounce ; but the metal was still brittle , although rather in a less degree than before .
The grain was not spongy ; and , as well as the colour , was similar to gold made standard by copper .
From these experiments it appears , that of a grain of bismuth in one ounce Troy of standard gold , or Iof the mass , is capable of destroying all ductility ; and there is reason to believe , that even a smaller quantity would produce a considerable effect , 67 The following experiments were made , to ascertain the effects of the fumes or vapour of bismuth upon gold , when melted in close , and when in open vessels .
Experiment vii .
One ounce of the fine gold , being put into a small four-inch crucible , was placed within a large one of about 12 inches , and another large crucible , inverted , was then fixed and luted , in the manner of a dome .
One ounce of bismuth was previously put into the inferior large crucible , on the outside of that which contained the gold , after which , a strong heat was kept up during two hours .
Upon opening the vessels , the bismuth was found in a mass , at the bottom of the large crucible ; but a considerable part had been volatilized ; for the button of gold , which before the experiment weighed 480 grains , now weighed 51 2 , grs. and had therefore acquired 32,2 grs. of bismuth .
It was , externally , of a pale brassy colour , and immediately split under the hammer , with a coarse-grained fracture .
Experiment VIIi .
The preceding experiment was repeated , but without the upper large crucible or dome , so that a free circulation of air was admitted .
When half an hour had elapsed , the crucible containing the gold was removed .
The external colour of the button was not altered ; but it proved to be so brittle , that it was immediately broken by the first blow of the hammer .
The whole of the-foregoing experiments concur to prove , that bismuth , under all circumstances , readily combines with gold , and that it is most exceedingly injurious to the ductility of it .
GOLD ALLOYED WITH LEAD .
Experiment i. To eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of gold , 23 car .
3g grs. fine , eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of pure lead were added , and , being well mixed , the whole was poured into a mould of iron .
The external colour of the bar was like fine gold , but rather more pale ; it had not the smallest degree of ductility , for it broke like glass .
The grain was very fine , and of a pale brown colour ; it was devoid of metallic lustre , and had a porcellaneous appearance .
Experiment II .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , in fusion , 19 grains of copper were added , and , when the copper was melted and well mixed , 19 grains of lead were also added , to complete the standard proportion of alloy ; the metal was then poured into a dry cupel .
The button was , in external colour , like gold made standard by copper ; but it immediately broke under the hammer , with an earthy fracture ; the grain , however , was not so close as that of the former experiment .
Experiment Ili .
Eighteen pennyweights of fine gold , were alloyed with one pennyweight and six grains of copper , after which , eight grains of lead were added .
The colour of the metal was like that of the former , but it was perfectly brittle .
The grain of the fracture was rather coarse .
Experiment iv .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , were first alloyed with one pennyweight and ten grains of copper , and afterwards with four grains of lead .
This , in colour , resembled the former ; it was also as brittle , but the grain was coarser , and showed some metallic lustre .
Experiment v. In Experiments II .
iii .
and iv .
one ounce of standard gold had been prepared , but two ounces were now employed ; so that the lead should be in the proportion of one grain to each ounce .
To one ounce sixteen pennyweights and twenty grains of fine gold , when in fusion , three pennyweights and two grains of copper were added , and afterwards two grains of lead .
This ingot resembled the former , and was exceedingly brittle .
Experiment vi .
The ingot formed by the preceding experiment was melted again , with one ounce sixteen pennyweights and twenty grains of fine gold , alloyed with three pennyweights and four grains of copper , so that the lead was in the proportion of a grain in each ounce The colour was as before ; and the metal was very brittle , and of a very loose spongy texture .
The latter circumstance explains why the specific gravity amounted only to 16,627 .
Experiment VIi .
One ounce of the metal formed by Exper .
vi .
was melted with eighteen pennyweights of fine gold , and one pennyweight and fourteen grains of copper , so that , at most , there could oniy be ?
of a grain of lead in the ounce .
The colour of this metal resembled the former ; and it was also very brittle ; but the texture was not spongy , for it was very similar , to that of gold made standard by copper .
Experiment viii .
One ounce of the fine gold , in a small four-inch crucible , was placed within another of 12 inches , at the bottom of which , about two ounces of lead were put on the outside of the small crucible .
An inverted crucible , of 12 inches , was then luted on , and the whole was exposed to a strong heat , in a wind-furnace , during two hours .
When the vessels were cold , and were opened , the colour of the gold in the small crucible was found to be unchanged ; but , ilstead of weighing 480 grains , it now weighed 488,1 grs. and was so brittle , that it was immediately broken by the hammer .
As so large a quantity of volatilized lead had thus been combined with gold , in close vessels , the following experiment was made with the free access of air .
Experiment Ix .
One ounce of fine gold , in a small crucible , was placed within another of 12 inches , containing about four ounces of lead , which , remaining open , was exposed to a strong heat in a windfurnace , during half an hour .
The gold in the small crucible was afterwards examined ; and the external colour was found to be but little changed ; the ductility of it was also not much injured , for , when repeatedly hammered , it only cracked slightly on the edges .
These experiments with lead , prove how destructive it is to the ductility of gold ; and that the properties of it , in this and many other respects , much resemble those of bismuth , excepting that the latter has a more powerful effect , when reduced to vapour in the vicinity of melted gold .
Bismuth , as well as lead , when combined with gold in certain proportions , produces some remarkable effects upon the texture and specific gravity of the latter metal ; and these effects are the most conspicuous , when either of the former metals is in the proportion of half a grain in the ounce Troy of gold alloyed with copper ; for then the alloyed gold becomes remarkably spongy , and sutffrs a very considerable diminution of'specific gravity .
GOLD ALLOYED WITH TIN .
Experiment I. Eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of gold , ,g car .
-grs .
fine , being melted , eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of pure grain tin were added , and , when well mixed , the whole was poured into a mould of iron .
The bar was in some measure brittle ; but , as this appeared to be partly caused by the thickness , ( ?
of an inch , ) the experiment was repeated as follows .
Experiment II .
The same bar was melted again , and was cast in sand , so as to form a bar only ?
of an inch in thickness .
This appeared to bend so easily , that it was passed between the rollers , but it then broke longitudinally into several pieces .
The external colour of the bars , in both experiments , was very pale whitish yellow .
The grain of the fracture was fine , inclining to an earthy appearance , and was of a pale yellowish-gray colour .
Experiment Ifi .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of fine gold , alloyed with 19 grains of copper being melted , 19 grains of fine grain tin were added , and , being properly mixed , the metal was poured into a cupel .
The button was , externally , pale yellow ; and it soon broke under the hammer , with a close-grained and rather earthy fracture .
Experiment Iv .
To eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold , alloyed with one pennyweight and six grains of copper , in fusion , eight grains of pure tin were added , and treated as before .
This metal resembled , in colour , gold made standard by copper , excepting that it was rather paler ; it also proved to be perfectly ductile .
Two pounds of gold were afterwards alloyed with tin and copper ; the former was in the proportion of eight grains in the ounce , similar to the last experiment ; and , in like manner , the alloyed metal was found to be perfectly ductile ; so that the bar , which at first was ?
of an inch in thickness , was rolled as thin as a guinea , and , when thus rolled , it still remained so soft , that it was punched and stamped without being previously annealed.* It is therefore certain , that tin , in small quantities , or even in the proportion of eight grains in the ounce Troy , is not by any means so injurious to the ductility of gold as was generally believed , previous to the publication of Mr. ALCHORNE'S Paper , in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1784.* Some time after the experiments lately described were made , ROBERT BINGLEY , Esq. his Majesty 's Assay Master at the Mint , communicated to me the following experiments , made by him , in consequence of a paper published in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences at Paris for the year 790 , and in NICHOLSON'S Philosophical Journal , Vol. II .
p. 14o and 179 .
The author of this paper , Mr. TILLET , a gentleman of much eminence in science , after having related some experiments which he purposely made upon mixtures of gold and tin , states it as his opinion , that tin , in small quantities , is really injurious to the ductility of gold , especially when gold thus alloyed is subjected to what he terms a cherry-red annealing heat ; and this circumstance , he conceives to have been overlooked by Mr , ALCHORNE .
Mr. BINGLEY , whose professional accuracy is sufficiently known , therefore made the following experiments , in order to investigate the subject in dispute .
14R .
BINGLEY'S EXPERIMENTS UPON GOLD ALLOYED WITH TIN .
I. T Two bars of gold alloyed with tin , in the proportion of " eight grains in the ounce Troy , and which had passed the " steel rollers without any disposition to break on the edges , " were submitted to an annealing heat , under a muffle , at two different temperatures .
( The first bar was exposed to a low degree of heat , visibly " red by daylight , which contracted WEDGWOOD'S pyrometer " five degrees .
&lt; " At this temperature , the metal was sufficiently annealed , c had lost the sonorous property acquired by passing the rollers , &lt; " was quite ductile , and capable of being worked into any form ; " and was slightly discoloured or oxidized on the surface , " ( The second bar was subjected to a somewhat greater heat , capproaching the cherry-red described by Mr. TILLET , and which contracted the pyrometer ten degrees .
C " At this temperature , some sensible changes soon began to c take place ; and , by a constant attentive watching of the metal during this exposure , three gradations of mischief were evi"dently marked .
i1 st. Little distinct bubbles or blisters arose in different places on the surface .
( 2dly .
The whole bar , in a short time , began to curl up , or warp , on the edges .
And , " g3dly .
When the whole of the tin , diffused through the interior of the metal , might be supposed to be in fusion , aL2 75 solution of continuity followed ; for the bar , by its own weight , " fell from the supporters on which it was 'placed , in a rough dark-coloured mass , having scarcely any appearance of metal , , ' although it recovered its metallic lustre , and some tenacity , by " being hammered upon a polished anvil .
II .
" These experiments were repeated , with exactly the same results ; and seem to prove , beyond a doubt , that gold alloyed " with tin may be repeatedly annealed , after passing the rollers , " without any danger , provided that due attention be paid to " the temperature to which it is exposed .
Hence it may fairly be said , that all which Mr. TILLET has " advanced on the foregoing subject , if closely attended to , will " be found to go in confirmation of what Mr. ALCHORNE had t previously asserted , relative to the mixture of gold with tin ; '( and Mr. TILLET only adduces the additional fact , of a greater " degree of heat destroying the union of the two metals , which , from a full consideration of their peculiar properties , and difc ferent fulsibility and specific gravity , might have been infrred " a priori .
It is also reasonable to suppose , that whenever a " combination of a more with a less fusible metal takes place , " a temperature insufficient to fuse the whole mass would tend " to separate the one from the other ; and this is the principle on which the process of eliquation depends .
( Mr. ALCHORNE was induced to make the experiments on : tin and gold , from reading the following passages .
A single grai of tin will destroy the ductility of a thousand grains of " gold , rendering the most malleable gold incapable of being " extended , and of bearing the hammer at all .
' NEUMANN'$ " Chemistry , Vol I. p. 49 .
" ' Of tin and lead , the most minute portions , even the vapours which rise from them in the fire , though not sufficient " to add to the gold any weight sensible in the most delicate " balance , make it so brittle , that it flies to pieces under the " hammer .
' LEWIS 's Philosophical Commerce of Arts , p. 85 .
" There must have been , undoubtedly , some cause from whence originated the general and universal opinion , that tin was so injurious to the ductility of gold , although it is now evident that this opinion is , within certain limits , erroneous ; and it appears to me very probable , that the chemists and metallurgists who first promulgated the idea that the ductility of gold was destroyed even by the fumes of tin , made their experiments with tin which contained a small portion of bismuth , lead , antimony , or zinc ; and , as the foregoing experiments have proved , that even less than -I of the three first of these metals is sufficient to make gold very brittle , and that gold in fusion attracts and combines with them , when in a state of vapour , we may suspect these to have produced the principal part of the effect which has been attributed to tin , and which has been so generally asserted and believed .
As to the difference of opinion between Mr. ALCHORNE and Mr. TILLET , it seems that both these gentlemen have just grounds for their assertions ; and that the different degree of annealing heat , employed by the one and by the other , has been the cause , why the results of their experiments appear to be so opposite .
GOLD A2LLOYED WITH IRON .
The efict , of irol upon gold seem to have been less understood , and more erroneously stated , than even those of tin .
For it has been so repeatedly asserted by various chemists , and so universally believed by all persons concerned in the melting and working of gold , that the ductility of it is destroyed , or much injured , by very small portions of iron , that , had it not been for the determination made , when these experiments were begun , to examine , by experiments made expressly for the purpose , every assertion respecting the effect of alloys , this long established opinion would not here have been questioned .
Indeed , considering how easy it was to ascertain whether or not gold could be rendered brittle by the addition of iron , it is a matter of astonishment , when we read in the works of many celebrated chemists , and when we hear intelligent and judicious artists assert , that iron , even in minute proportions , injures or destroys the ductility of gold.* It is not necessary here to inquire how this erroneous idea first originated ; but , that the fact is absolutely the reverse , the following experiments will sufficiently prove .
Experiment I. To eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of gold , 93 car .
3g fine , eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of clean iron wire were added .
The iron was soon melted , and was well mixed with the gold , after which , the whole was poured into a greased mould of iron .
The bar thus formed was of a pale yellowish gray , approaching to a dull white ; it was very ductile , and , with great ease , was reduced by the rollers from ?
of an inch to the thickness of a guinea .
It was then cut without difficulty , by the punches , into blanks , and these were afterwards stamped with great ease , although they had not been annealed .
Experiment I. The same bar was again melted , and was cast in a sand mould ; it then appeared to be very brittle , but this , it was proved , was occasioned by the effects of the sand mould , which had rendered the metal porous ; for , when the parts had been approached by previous hammering , the bar was rolled , and , in every respect , was found to be as ductile as in the former experiment .
Experiment in .
Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of the fine gold being melted , one pennyweight and fourteen grains of cast-iron nails were added , and , when fused , the whole was cast in a mould of iron .
This metal , in colour , much resembled the former ; and was also perfectly ductile .
Experiment iv .
This was the same as Exper .
iii .
but thin plate cast-steel was employed , instead of cast-iron .
The properties of this metal , in respect to colour , ductility , &amp;c. resembled the former .
Experiment v. To eighteen pnnyweights and ten grains of fine gold , alloyed with 19 grains of copper , 19 grains of fine iron wire were added , and the mixture was treated as before .
The colour of this metal was pale grayish yellow ; it was perfectly ductile , and was rolled and stamped , without being previously annealed .
By these experiments it appears , that gold made standard by wrought and cast iron , and even by cast-steel , is not brittle , as has generally been asserted ; for , although gold undoubtedly is thus rendered harder , it nevertheless does not become brittle , but remains so ductile , that it may be hammered , rolled , and stamped , without requiring to be annealed ; and , allowing that the clange of colour produced by iron upon gold renders it unfit for coin , yet this mixture may probably be employed with advantage in ornamental and other works.* Emery is enumerated by mineralogists among the ores of iron ; and many very intelligent assayers , and others , even at this time , believe it to be a frequent cause of the brittleness of gold .
Some eminent metallurgists , such as SCHLUTTER , support the same opinion , and have recommended certain processes to be employed to refine the gold , when thus adulterated.+ It must however be allowed , that it is not easy to conceive how such a combination can take place ; for if ( as is generally believed ) emery consists of oxide of iron and siliceous earth , such a substance cannot unite with gold in the metallic s tte ; and , even supposing that the ferruginous ingredient could in any manner be combined with gold , yet it has been fully proved , in another part of this Paper , that gold does not become brittle by the addition of iron .
In order , however , to ascertain what effects could be produced by emery , * the following experiments were made , EXPERIMENTS ON EMERY AND GOLD .
Experiment i. One ounce of fine gold was put into a small crucible , and was completely covered with emery , which had been reduced to a fine powder .
The gold was kept in fusion during one hour , and was frequently stirred , after which , it was poured into a mould .
Not the smallest change , in colour , ductility , or any other property , was thus produced .
Experiment Ii .
About half an ounce of fine powder of emery was , several times , alternately moistened with olive oil and made red hot , after which , it was put into a crucible lined with charcoal .
An ounce of fine gold was placed in the middle of the emery ; the crucible lined with charcoal was closed by a stopper of the same , and a cover was luted upon the exterior crucible .
After a very strong heat of one hour and a half , the gold was found to be exactly of the same colour , ductility , &amp;c. as before .
Experiment iii .
The preceding experiment was repeated ; but the heat was continued during three hours , so that at length the crucible began to be melted .
It was suffered to cool in the furnace ; and , being afterwards broken , the gold was found crystallized in a reticulated form , but not altered in colour or ductility .
The emery was reduced to a dark gray or blackish slag , which occupied the upper part of the crucible .
We have , from the above described experiments , sufficient proof that emery will not combine with gold ; and , when the difficulty of uniting metallic oxides in general , or any earthy substance , with a metal , is considered , it appears singular that the existence of such a combination as that of emery with gold should ever have been believed .
It is not however improbable , but that some other substance has been occasionally denoted by the term smiris , emeril , or emery ; and Dr. LEWIS appears to be inclined to adopt this opinion.* GOLD ALLOYED WITH PLATINA .
Experiment I. Eighteen pennyweights and ten grains of gold , 23 car .
3$ grs. Phil. Comm .
of Arts , p. 607 .
fine , being completely melted , one pennyweight and fourteen grains of purified platina were added , and , when well mixed , the whole was poured into a mould .
This metal was of a yellowish white , like tarnished silver , and was extremely ductile.* The specific gravity of it was 19,013 .
Experiment ii .
The ounce of standard gold formed by the foregoing experiment , was again alloyed with one pennyweight and fourteen grains of copper , so that the standard proportion of alloy was doubled .
This metal was of a pale dull yellow ; it was not quite so ductile as the former ; and the specific gravity was 16,816 .
It was not thought necessary to extend these experiments , as the properties and effects of platina upon gold are now so generally known , as well as the means usually employed to detect it.t GOLD ALLOYED WITH COPPER .
Experiment i. Eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of gold , 3 car , 3 gr. fine , were alloyed with eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of the finest Swedish copper .
The heat employed was only just suficient to keep the whole in fusion ; and , when the alloy appear d to be well mixMd , the metal was poured into a greased mould of iron .
The standard gold , thus formed , was perfectly ductile , and of a deep yellow colour , inclining to red .
Experiment iI .
The bar formed by the preceding experiment was melted in the strongest heat which could be excited , and was again cast in the mould of iron .
Not any alteration , however , appeared to have been produced by the increased heat .
Experiment III .
The bar was again melted , and was then cast in sand ; but still the ductility and other properties remained as before .
From these experiments it appears , that gold made standard by copper , does not suffer any change in ductility by the different degrees of heat , nor by the nature of the moulds in which the metal is cast , provided that the copper be pure .
Experiment iv .
Eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of fine gold , le depart ; 5mo , enfin par la couleur jaune pale , et tirant au blanc , du cornet quand ii est recuit .
Manuel de 'Essayeir , par VAUq.y LI , p. 49 .
were alloyed with eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of granulated Swedish copper , which was taken from another parcel .
The bar was cast in a mould of iron , and was found to be , in a small degree , less ductile than the netal formed by the foregoing experiments .
Experiment v. The same bar was melted again , and was cast in sand , faced in the usual manner by charcoal dust ; it then proved slightly brittle .
Experiment vi .
The bar was melted as before , and was cast in the mould of iron .
The metal was now found to have recovered the same ductility which it possessed in Exper .
iv .
Experiment vII .
Eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of fine gold , were alloyed with eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of Swedish dollar copper , which being well mixed , the whole was cast in a mould of iron .
The colour of this bar resembled the former ; but it did not possess the smallest degree of ductility , for it broke like glass .
Experiment VIiI .
The bar was melted again , and was cast in sand ; but not any alteration was thus produced .
Experiment Ix .
The foregoing bar was melted once more , and was cast in the mould of iron ; but it still remained as brittle as at first , 85 Experiment x. One pound Troy of standard gold was made as already mentioned , and another Swedish copper dollar was employed for the alloy .
The metal was cast in a mould of iron , and proved to be ductile ; it is therefore very evident that the Swedish copper dollars are not of an uniform quality .
Experiment xI .
Eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of the fine gold , were alloyed with eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of fine British granulated copper .
When this was cast in a mould of iron , it was found to be slightly brittle .
Experiment xir .
When the same bar was cast in sand , the brittle quality was much increased .
Experiment xiii .
Eleven ounces one pennyweight and three grains of fine gold , were alloyed with eighteen pennyweights and twenty-one grains of British granulated copper which was considered as better than the former .
The bar was cast in the mould of iron , and was very ductile .
Experiment xiv .
The same bar being melted , was cast in sand , and then was found to be brittle .
Experiment xv .
The abovementioned brittle bar was again melted , and was cast in the mould of iron .
It then became ductile , but not quite in so great a degree as in Exper .
xIIi .
Experiment xvi .
Six ounces of fine gold , and six ounces of the finest Swedish copper , were melted , and mixed .
This metal , being cast in the mould of iron , was ductile .
Experiment xvii .
The bar was melted again , and , being cast in sand , was then found to be very brittle .
From these experiments it appears , that the varieties of copper in commerce , although similar in aspect , and other obvious properties , are far from being uniform in quality ; so that many of them are by no means sufficiently pure to be employed as ai alloy for gold .
Moreover , the different effects produced by the moulds of iron and those of sand , are such as fully prove , that copper which is not perfectly pure , and which has a tendency to render gold brittle , acts more powerfully , in this respect , when the alloyed mass is cast in sand than when it is cast in iron ; and , all things being considered , we have reason to conclude , that moulds of iron are much to be preferred to those of sand.* The ores of antimony and of lead frequently accompany those of copper ; and it has already been proved , that ~w ?
of either ^ Bars of alloyed gold ( particularly those whith are alloyed with copper ) are generally discoloured on the surface , when cast in moulds of sand ; but not so when cast in iron .
It may be suspected , that the alloy is superficially oxidized when sand is employed , in consequence of the air which is lodged in the iterstices , together , perhaps , with some degree of moisture .
of the former metals is sufficient to destroy the ductility of gold .
It may therefore be suspected , that the brittle quality which certain kinds of copper communicate to gold , proceeds from those metals ; for , although other metallic substances produce the same effect , yet , as the former especially are so commonly present with the ores of copper , it is highly probable that antimony , or lead , may remain combined with the smelted copper , in a proportion too small to affect the general and more obvious properties of that metal , yet still sufficient to destroy the ductility of gold , when such copper is employed as all alloy .
To ascertain how far copper might be alloyed with lead , or antimony , without any very apparent change in its obvious properties , the following experiments were made .
To 476 grains of fine malleable copper , in fusion , four grains of antimony were added , and , being well mixed , the whole was poured into a mould .
The colour of this copper , when filed and polished , was such as not easily to be distinguished from that which had not been thus alloyed .
It was also hammered and rolled , without showing any signs of brittleness .
The specific gravity was 8,354.* The like quantity of copper was alloyed with four grains of lead .
This also was ductile , and did not suffer any apparent change of colour .
The specific gravity was 8,47g .
The same experiment was repeated with four grains of bismuth ; but the copper thus alloyed was exceedingly spongy and brittle .
It appears , therefore , that four grains of antimony , or of lead , may be present in one ounce , or 480 grains , of copper , without producing any very apparent change in colour or ductility , and but little in specific gravity ; such copper may , therefore , without suspicion , be occasionally employed to alloy gold ; then , however , the antimony or lead will produce a powerful effect ; for it has been proved , that I-rof either of these will destroy the ductility of gold .
But , supposing one ounce Troy of copper which contains four grains of antimony , or of lead , to be employed to alloy eleven ounces of gold , 24 carats fine , there would then be four grains of the abovementioned metals in the 12 ounces or Troy pound ; and therefore the quantity of these would be considerably more than is required to destroy the ductility of gold .
For the Troy pound contains 5760 grains ; and 4 is to 5760 as 1 to 144o ; consequently , this proportion much exceeds the quantity which is capable of producing the abovementioned effect. .
But the copper of commerce often contains a much greater proportion of one or other of these metals ; and , although it then .
appears more pale than common , yet it has , without suspicion , been purchased by those who , from their profession , are supposed to be competent judges , and who especially require copper to be as pure as possible .
Persons of this .
description , however , .
are liable to be deceived ; for , in 1791 , Mr. ROITIER , Director ' of the Mint at Paris , purchased a quantity of copper from the mines of Poullaoen in Britany ; but he soon discovered , from the effects which it produced , when employed as an alloy , .
that it was not pure , and .
therefore requested Mr. SAGE to examine it .
By the ' latter , it was analysed , and was found tocontain one forty-eighth of antimony.* Allowing , therefore , that other metallic substances may at times be present in copper , and may contribute to affect gold which is ailoyed with it , yet , for the reasons above related , I am inclined to attribute , most frequently , this effect to antimony or lead.* Copper which is pure , is uniform in its effects , and does not injure the ductility of gold ; it would therefore be proper , in all cases when copper is to be purchased for the purpose of alloying gold , to make a previous trial of it on a small quantity , as this would answer every purpose of a tedious and expensive analysis .
Since the above was written , I have made various experiments in the humid way , on the different kinds of copper which are known in commerce , especially on the following : No. x. Finest granulated Swedish copper sp. grav .
8,895 .
z. -Swedish dollar copper - .
sp. grav .
8,799 .
3 .
sheet British copper sp. grav .
8,785 .
4 .
Fine granulated British copper sp. grav .
8,607 .
480 grains of the first , only afforded a few particles of sulphate of lead , which cotuld not be estimated .
The second contained both lead and antimony , of which the lead was in the largest proportion , as it amounted to nearly one grain of metallic lead , whilst the antimony did not exceed half a grain .
The sheet British copper yielded some lead , with scarcely any antimony ; and , on the contrary , the granulated British copper contained antimony with but very little lead , We may therefore conclude , that the varieties of copper known in commerce , are seldom , if ever , absolutely free from lead or antimony ; and that the brittle quality , so frequently communicated to gold by an alloy of copper , arises from the presence of one or both of these metals , which , even in the proportion of X part of the mass , I have already proved to be capable of destroying the ductility of gold .
I have lately made some farther inquiries concerning the varieties of Swedish copper , and am informed , that the fine granulated copper is made in this country from the Swedish cake-copper , merely by the ordinary process of granulation ; and , as the quality even of this copper has been found variable , the Deputy Master of the Mint has of late employed British copper , which has been refined expressly for the purpose , and seems to answer perfectly well .
Respecting the variable and occasional very bad quality of the copper dollars , Mr. Sw ED6TR A , a learned Swedish gentleman GOLD ALLOYED WITH SILVER .
Gold alloyed with pure silver , in standard proportion , is so generally known , that it would be needless here to say more , than that it approaches the nearest to the ductility of fine gold , and that the specific gravity of this mixture differs but very little from that which , according to calculation , would result from the relative proportions of the two metals .
From the foregoing experiments it is evident , that many of the metallic substances with which gold may be alloyed , are more or less liable to be separated from it during fusion , in consequence of their relative affinities with caloric , with oxygen , at present in London , has favoured me with some particulars , in a letter , of which the following is an extract .
" e Puis , par rapport au dollars , je serais bien surpris si jamais ils avaient ete parfaite ?
' meant purse , parce que , tant que je sais , ils ont toujours e'te frappes de cuivre de s " Fahlun , dont le minerais a toujours et6 plus ou moins melange de plomb sulfure , et c " peut-etre d'antimoine , Cependant , comme ces dollars avaient ete frappes origins airement sous le regne du Roi FREDERIC , ( FREDERICUS Rex Sueciza ) et que dans ce tems la on aurait pu employer un minerais plus pur a Fahlun , il est , probable que ces dollars , dans leur origin , ont ete meilleurs que ceux contrefaits depuis ; car ces dollars ayant ete recherches aux Indes , et surtout commrandes en , ' assez grande quantite par la Compagnie Asiatique de Copenhague , on en a frappe d de nouveau , a plusieurs reprises , et de tout sorts de cuivre indifferemment .
Ce fait ' explique au moins la cause de leurs inegalites de composition .
R , Rest a savoir , si jamais on en a trouve de parfaitement purse .
Pour moi , je suis plus port a croire , que c'est la convenance de la form de ce cuivre qui l'a mis au c ' courant dans les Indes , et que ce sont les prejuges qui lui ont donne dn credit pour &lt; l'usage de la monnoie .
Depuis quelques annees , les Danois , ayant trouve ce cuivre , ' trop cher , en ont contrefait la marque eux memes , et en ont frappes a Roeraas , en " ' Norwege ; ce qui doit fournir encore un variete de ce clivre .
"

