III .
An Analysis of a mineral Substance from North America , containing a Metal hitherto unknown .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 6 , i 8o i IN the course of the last summer , when I was examining and arranging some minerals in the British Museum , I observed a small specimen of a dark-coloured heavy substance , which attracted my attention , on account of some resemblance which it had with the Siberian chromate of iron , on which at that time I was making experiments .
Upon referring to Sir HANS SLOANE'S catalogue , I found that this specimen was only described as " a very heavy black stone , " with golden streaks , " which proved to be yellow mica ; and it appeared , that it had been sent , with various specimens of iron ores , to Sir HANS SLOANE , by Mr. WINTHROP , of Massachusets .
The name of the mine , or place where it was found , is also noted in the catalogue ; the writing however is scarcely legible : it appears to be an Indian name , ( Nautneauge ; ) but I am informed by several American gentlemen , that many of ihe Indian names ( by which certain small districts , hills , &amp;c. were forty or fifty years ago distinguished , ) are now totally forgotten , and European names have been adopted in the room of them .
This may have been the case in the present instance ; but , as the other specimens sent by Mr. WINTHROP were from the mines of Massachusets , there is every reason to believe that the mineral substance in question came from one of them , although it may not now be easy to identify the particular mine . ?
I. DESCRIPTION OF THE ORE .
The external colour is dark brownish gray .
The internal colour is the same , inclining to iron gray .
The longitudinal fracture is imperfectly lamellated ; and the cross fracture shows a fine grain .
The lustre is vitreous , slightly inclining in some parts to metallic lustre .
It is moderately hard , and is very brittle .
The colour of the streak or powder is dark chocolate brown .
The particles are not attracted by the magnet .
The specific gravity , at temp. 65 ?
, is 5918.* Experiment r. Some of the ore , reduced to fine powder , was digested in boiling muriatic acid for about one hour .
The acid appeared to have acted but slightly upon the powder ; as the former remained colourless , and the latter did not seem to be diminished .
A portion , however , chiefly of iron , was found to be dissolved ; for ammonia formed a yellow flocculent precipitate ; prussiate of potash produced one which was blue ; and tincture of galls , when the excess of acid had been previously saturated by an alkali , formed a precipitate of a rich purplish brown colour .
Experiment Ii .
Another portion of the powder was , in like manner , digested with nitric acid ; but , excepting some sliglt traces of iron , this acid afforded nothing worthy of notice ; the action of it upon the ore , was indeed scarcely perceptible .
Experiment i r. Some of the pulverised ore was digested with concentrated sulphuric acid , in a strongly-heated sand-bath , until nearly the whole of the acid was evaporated ; the edges of the mass then appeared bluish , and became white , when boiling distilled water was added .
This acid certainly acted much more powerfully than those which have been mentioned ; but still only a small part of the ore was dissolved .
It must however be observed , that a very copious blue precipitate was obtained by prussiate of potash ; a plentiful purplish brown precipitate was also produced by tincture of galls , after the excess of acid had been saturated by an alkali ; and , lastly , when the yellow ferruginous precipitate formed by ammonia was dissolved in diluted nitric acid , some white flocculi remained , which were completely insoluble in the acid , even when it was added so as to be in considerable excess .
From these experiments it was evident , that the ore could not readily be decomposed by the direct application of the mineral acids ; and I therefore had recourse to the following H2 5i5 method , which has frequently been employed with success in similar cases .
ANALYSIS .
A. A mixture of 2oo grains of the powdered ore with five times the weight of carbonate of potash , was exposed to a strong red heat , in a silver crucible .
As soon as the matter began to flow , a very perceptible effervescence took place ; and , when this had subsided , the whole was poured into a proper vessel .
The mass , when cold , was grayish-brown .
Boiling distilled water was poured upon it ; and the brown residuum , which was considerable , was well edulcorated upon a filter .
The filtrated liquor had a slight yellowish tinge , and , being supersaturated with nitric acid , afforded a copious white flocculent precipitate , which speedily subsided ; but , although a very considerable additional quantity of nitric acid was poured upon the precipitate , it was not re-dissolved .
The residuum of the ore was dark brown , and was again melted with potash , and treated as before ; but scarcely any effect was thus produced ; the alkali was therefore washed off ; and the powder was digested with muriatic acid , which soon assumed the deep yellow colour usually communicated to it by iron .
After half an hour , the acid was decanted , and the residuum was washed with distilled water .
This powder was now of a much paler colour ; and , being mixed with potash , it was melted and treated as before .
A considerable precipitate was again obtained by the addition of nitric acid ; and the residuum , after being digested with muriatic acid , was again fused with potash , by which means the whole was completely decomposed , after about five repetitions of each operation .
B. The muriatic solution was diluted , and , being saturated with ammonia , afforded a plentiful ochraceous precipitate ; which again was dissolved in cold dilute nitric acid , and afforded a small quantity of a white insoluble substance , similar to that which was obtained from the alkaline solution .
From this nitric solution , I then obtained , by means of ammonia , a precipitate of oxide of iron , which , being properly dried , weighed .
40 grains .
C ' .
The different alkaline solutions which had been made subse-quent to that which has been first mentioned , were mixed together , and , being supersaturated with nitric acid , afforded the same white insoluble precipitate ; the total quantity of which , obtained from 200 grains of the ore , , amounted to about 155 grains .
The liquor from which this precipitate had been separated by nitric acid , was then saturated with ammonia , and , being boiled , afforded about 2 grains of oxide of iron .
I obtained , therefore , from 200 grains of the ore , Grains .
Oxide of iron _ Grainsr And of the white precipitated substance 155 97 .
But , as I could not repeat the analysis without destroying the remaining part of the only specimen at present known of this ore , I do not wish the above stated proportions , to be regarded as rigidly exact ; it will be sufficient , therefore , to say at present , that the ore is composed of about three parts of the white matter , and rather less than one of iron .
II .
PROPERTIES OF THE WHITE PRECIPITATE .
A. It is of a pure white , and is not extremely heavy .
It has scarcely any perceptible flavour , nor does it appear to be soluble in boiling water ; when , however , some of the powder is placed upon litmus paper moistened with distilled water , the paper in a few minutes evidently becomes red .
B. i. When examined by the blow-pipe , it is not fusible per se in a spoon of platina , nor upon charcoal , but only becomes of a less brilliant white .
2 .
Borax does not appear to act upon it ; for the white particles are only dispersed throughout the globule .
3 .
It produces an effervescence when fused with carbonate of soda , and forms a colourless salt ; but , if too much of it be added , then the mass , when cold , appears like a white opaque enamel .
4 .
When carbonate of potash is employed , the effects are similar in every respect to those of soda ; and it may here be remarked , that the saline combinations thus formed with soda , or potash , are soluble in water ; and that these solutions have the same properties as that which was formed when the ore was decomposed by an alkali .
The portion of the white precipitate which may be in excess , subsides unaltered , when the globules are dissolved in water .
5 .
Phosphate of ammonia produces a very marked effect ; for , when melted in a platina spoon , if some of the white substance be added , a considerable effervescence takes place , and the two substances rapidly unite .
The globule , when cold , is 4 deep blue , with a tinge of purple , but , when held between the eye and the light , it appears of a greenish gray colour .
C. It is perfectly insoluble , and remains unchanged in colour , and in every other respect , when digested in boiling concentrated nitric acid .
D. It is dissolved by boiling sulphuric acid , and forms a transparent colourless solution , which is however only permanent while the acid remains in a concentrated state ; for , if a large quantity of water be added to the solution , or if the latter be poured into a vessel of distilled water , the whole in a few minutes assumes a milky appearance , and a white precipitate is gradually deposited , which cracks as it becomes dry upon the filter , and , from white , changes to a lavender-blue colour ; and again , when completely dry , to a brownish gray .
It is then insoluble in water , has not any flavour , is semi-transparent , and breaks with a glossy vitreous fracture .
This substance is much heavier than the original white precipitate ; and in a very slight degree may be dissolved by boiling mnuriatic acid , or by boiling lixivium of potash .
Upon examining these solutions , I found that both contained the original white substance , together with some sulphuric acid ; so that the precipitate obtained from the sulphuric solution by the addition of water , is a sulphate of the white matter.* The whole is not however precipitated by water ; for a part remains in solution , twhich may be separated from the sulphuric acid by either of the fixed alkalis , or by ammonia .
The sulphuric solution is not rendered turbid by the addition of water , until some minutes at least have elapsed ; when , therefore , some prussiate of potash was added immediately after the water , the colour of the liquor became olive green , and a copious precipitate , of a beautiful olive colour , was gradually deposited .
Tincture of galls , after a few minutes , caused the liquor to become turbid , and a very'high orange-coloured precipitate was obtained .
A few drops of phosphoric acid were added to a part of the concentrated sulphuric solution ; and , after about 12 hours , the whole became a white opaque stiffjelly , which was insoluble in water .
Potash , soda , and ammonia , whether pure or in the state of carbonates , separate the substance in question from the sulphuric solution , in the form of a white flocculent precipitate ; and , when these alkalis are added to a considerable excess , they do not redissolve the precipitate , unless they are heated ; then , indeed , the fixed alkalis act upon it , and form combinations which have already been mentioned , but which we shall soon have occasion more particularly to notice .
E. i. The white precipitate , when recently separated from potash , is soluble in boiling muriatic acid ; and this solution may be considerably diluted with water , without any change being produced .
~ .
A part was evaporated to dryness , and left a pale yellow substance , which was not soluble in water , and was dissolved with great difficulty , when it was again digested with muriatic acid .
8 .
Prussiate of potash changed the colour of the muriatic solution to an olive-green ; the liquor then gradually became turbid , and an olive-coloured precipitate was obtained , similar to that which has been lately mentioned .
But , 4 .
If some nitric acid was previously added to the muriatic solution , then the prussiate changed the liquor to a grass-green , but did not produce any precipitate .
5 .
Tincture of galls , in a few minutes , formed an orangecoloured precipitate , like that which has been mentioned ; but , if the acid was in too great an excess , it was necessary to add a small quantity of lixivium of potash or soda , before the precipitate could be obtained .
6 .
A small quantity of phosphoric acid , being added to the muriatic solution , in a few hours formed a white flocculent precipitate .
7 .
Potash , soda , and ammonia , also produced white flocculent precipitates , which were not redissolved by an excess of the alkalis , unless the liquors were heated ; and , in that case , part was dissolved by the fixed alkalis , but not by ammonia .
8 .
The muriatic solution did not yield any precipitate , when the muriates of lime , magnesia , and strontian , were added ; but nuriate of barytes formed a slight cloud .
9 .
When a piece of zinc was immersed in the muriatic solution , a white flocculent precipitate was obtained.* The acetous acid has not any apparent effect on the white precipitate , when long digested with it .
G. The fixedalkalis readily combine with this substance , both in the dry and in the humid way .
We have already seen , that the former method was employed with success in the analysis of the ore ; and the experiments made with the blow-pipe may be regarded as an additional confirmation .
In each of these cases , the white precipitate combined with the alkali , as soon as the heat was sufficient to cause the latter to flow ; and , when a carbona was employed , a portion of carbonic acid was expelledi The carbonic acid was in like manner dingaged , when the white precipitate was boiled with lixivium of carbonate of potash , or of soda ; and the solutions thus prepared , resembled in every respect those which were formed by dissolving in water the salts which had been produced in thedry way .
It will be proper here to give a more particular account of these combinations .
i. Some of the white precipitate was digested , during nearly one hour , with boiling lixivium of pure or caustic potash about one-fourth of the powder was dissolved ; and the remainder , which apped little if at all altered , subsided to the bottom of the vessel The clear solution , which contained a great excess of alkali , was decanted ; and , by gentle evaporation , yielded a white glittering salt , in scales , very much reembling the concrete boracic acid .
The salt was placed upon a filter , so that the lixivium might be separated .
It was then washed with a small quantity of cold distilled water ; and , being dried , remained as above described , although constantly exposed to the open air .
This salt had an acrid disagreeable flavour , and contained a small excess of alkali .
It did not dissolve very readily in cold water ; but , when dissolved , the solution was perfect and permanent .
Some nitric acid was added to part of the solution , and immediately rendered it white and turbid .
In a short time , a white precipitate was collected , similar to that which had been employed to neutralise the potash ; and the clear supernatant liquor being evaporated , only afforded nitre .
Prussiate of potash was added to another portion ; but did not produce any effect , until some muriatic acid was dropped into the liquor , which then immediately assumed a tinge of olive green , and slowly deposited a precipitate of the same colour .
Tincture of galls did not affect the solution at first ; but , when a few drops of muriatic acid had been added , it gradually lost its transparency , and yielded an orange-coloured precipitate .
2 .
As so large a part of the white precipitate had remained undissolved in the foregoing experiment , it was digested again with another portion of the same lixivium , but without any effect .
I therefore washed off the alkali , and boiled some nitric acid with the powder , until the acid was completely evaporated .
After this , the powder was exposed to a strong heat in a sandbath .
It was then again digested with the lixivium , and a part was dissolved as before ; but still the residuum required to be treated with nitric acid , before the alkaline liquor could again act upon it ; so that it was necessary to repeat these alternate I 59 operations several times , before the whole of the powder could be united with the alkali .
3 .
Vhen the white precipitate was digested with .
solution of carbonate of potash , or of soda , it was dissolved , much in the same manner as above related ; and the properties of the solutions , when examined by reagents , were also similar , excepting that the orange-coloured precipitates produced by tincture of galls were of a paler colour .
Tungstate of potash , molybdate of potash , and cobaltate of ammonia , being severally added to the solution of the white substance in potash , produced white flocculent precipitates .
Hydro-sulphuret of ammonia produced a reddish chocolatecoloured precipitate .
4 .
As the ore was decomposed by being fused with potash , the following experiment affords a curious instance ( among the many already known ) of the change in the order of affinities produced by a difference of temperature .
Some of the solution of the white precipitate in potash , was poured into the alkaline solution of iron , which was formerly known by the name of STAHL'S Tinctura Alkalina Martis .
Potash was in excess in both of these solutions ; but nevertheless a cloud was immediately produced , and a brown ferruginous precipitate was deposited .
Part of this precipitate was dissolved in muriatic acid ; and the solution , being examined in the usual way , yielded a blue precipitate when prussiate of potash was added , and a purplis1l brown precipitate with tincture of galls .
The other part of the precipitate was digested with dilute nitric acid ; which dissolved the ferruginous part , but left untouched a white fiocculent matter , perfectly resembling the substance which has been so often mentioned .
The precipitate therefore produced by the mixture of the two alkaline solutions , was a combination of the white matter with oxide of iron , very similar to the original ore .
H. The white precipitate , when distilled with four parts of sulphur , remained pulverulent , and , from white , was only changed to a pale ash colour .
Nitric acid was digested on the powder , and , being heated , afforded some nitrous gas ; after this , the powder became white , and in every respect recovered its original properties .
Before I conclude this section , I must observe , that when the olive-green precipitates , obtained by prussiate of potash , were digested in an alkaline lixivium , they were decomposed ; for the alkali combined with the prussic acid , and with a small part of the white matter ; but the greater part of the latter remained undissolved , in the same white flocculent state which was noticed when the alkaline combinations were mentioned .
The orange-coloured precipitates , formed by tincture of galls , were also decomposed when digested in boiling nitric acid ; and the white matter was recovered in its original state . ?
III .
REMARKS .
The preceding experiments show , that the ore which has been analysed , consists of iron combined with an unknown substance , and that the latter constitutes more than three-fourths of the whole .
This substance is proved to be of a metallic nature , by the coloured precipitates which it forms with prussiate of potash , and with tincture of galls ; by the effects which zinc produces , when immersed in the acid solutions ; and by the colour which it communicates to phosphate of ammonia , or rather to concrete phosphoric acid , when melted with it Moreover , from the experiments made with the blow-pipe , it seems to be one of those metallic substances which retain oxygen with great obstinacy , and are therefore of difficult reduction .
It is an acidifiable metal ; for the oxide reddens litmus paper , expels carbonic acid , and forms combinations with the fixed alkalis .
But it is very different from the acidifiable metals which have of late been discovered ; for , i. It remains white when digested with nitric acid .
2 .
It is soluble in the sulphuric and muriatic acids , and forms colourless solutions , from which it may be precipitated , in the state of a white flocculent oxide , by zinc , by the fixed alkalis , and by ammonia .
Water also precipitates it from the sulphuric solution , in the state of a sulphate .
8 .
Prussiate of potash produces a copious and beautiful olivegreen precipitate .
4 .
Tincture of galls forms orange or deep yellow precipitates .
5 .
Unlike the other metallic acids , it refuses to unite with ammonia .
6 .
When mixed and distilled with sulphur , it does not conbine with it so as to form a metallic sulphuret .
7 .
It does not tinge any of the fluxes , except phosphoric acid , with which , even in the humid way , it appears to have a very great affinity .
8 .
When combined with potash and dissolved in water , it forms precipitates , upon being added to solutions of tungstate of potash , molybdate of potash , cobaltate of ammonia , and the alkaline solution of iron .
These properties completely distinguish it from the other acidifiable metals , viz. arsenic ; tungsten , molybdena , and chromium ; as to the other metals lately discovered , such as uranium , titanium , and tellurium , they are still farther removed from it .
The colours of the precipitates produced by prussiate of potash and tincture of galls , approach the nearest to those afforded by titanium .
But the prussiate of the latter is much browner ; and the gallate is not of an orange colour , but-of a brownish red , inclining to the colour of blood .
Besides , even if these precipitates were more like each other , still the obstinacy with which titanium refuses to unite with the fixed alkalis , and the insolubility of it in acids when heated , sufficiently denote the different nature of these two substances .
The iron in the ore which has been examined , is apparently in the same state as it is in wolfram , viz. brown oxide ; and .
this oxide is mineralised by the metallic acid which has beendescribed , in : the same manner as the oxides of iron and man-ganese are mineralised by the tungstic acid or rather oxide .
For , from several experiments made upon a large scale , I have reason to believe that in wolfram , the tungsten has not attained the maximum of oxidation .
Several facts in the course of the experiments lately described , seem to prove , that this new metal : differs from tungsten and the other acidifiable metals , by a more limited extent of oxidation ; for , unlike these , it seems to be incapable of retaining oxygen sufficient to enable the total quantity to combine with the fixed alkalis .
In ?
II .
G. 2 , this is very evident ; for , from the experiment there described it appears , that when the metallic acid or oxide was digested with lixivium of potash , only a part was dissolved ; and that the remainder was insoluble in the same lixivium , till it had received .
63 an additional portion of oxygen , by being treated witfl nitric acid ; also that several of these alternate operations were required , before any given quantity of the metallic oxide could be completely combined with the alkali .
Now there is much reason to believe , that in this case , when the metallic oxide or acid was digested with potash , the portion which was dissolved , received an accession of oxygen at the expense of the other part , which of course was thus reduced to the state of an insoluble oxide , and therefore required to be again oxidated by nitric acid , before it could combine with the alkaline solution ; but still it appeared , that an adequate proportion of oxygen could never be superinduced , so as to render the oxide totally and immediately soluble in the alkalis by one operation , or even by two .
We may , therefore , regard this as an instance of the effects resulting from disposing affinity , and as very similar to those observed in respect to copper , which have been noticed by my ingenious friend Mr. CHENEVIX , in his valuable analysis of the arseniates of copper and of iron.* My researches into the properties of this metal , have of course been much limited by the smallness of the quantity which I had to operate upon ; but I flatter myself that more of the ore may soon be procured from the Massachuset mines , particularly as a gentlenan now in England , ( Mr. SMITH , Secretary to the American Philosophical Society , ) has obligingly offered his assistance on this occasion .
We shall then be able more fully to investigate the nature of this substance ; and shall be more capable of judging how far it may be applicable to useful purposes .
At present , all that can be said is , that the olive green prussiate and the orange-coloured gallate are fine colours ; and , as they do not appear to fade when exposed to light and air , they might probably be employed with advantage as pigments .
I am much inclined to believe , that the time is perhaps not very distant , when some of the newly-discovered metals , and other substances , which , are now considered as simple , primitive , and distinct bodies , will be found to be compounds .
Yet I only entertain and state this opinion as a probability ; for , until an advanced state of chemical knowledge shall enable us to compose , or at least to decompose , these bodies , each must be classed and denominated as a substance sui generis .
Considering , therefore , that the metal which has been examined is so very different from those hitherto discovered , it appeared proper that it should be distinguished by a peculiar name ; and , having consulted with several of the eminent and ingenious chemists of this country , I have been induced to give it the name of Columbium .
POSTSCRIPT .
It appears proper to mention some unsuccessful attempts , .
which I have lately made to reduce the white oxide .
Fifty grains were put into a crucible coated with charcoal ; and , being covered with the same , the crucible was closely luted , and was exposed to a strong heat , in a small wind-furnace , during about one hour and an half .
When the crucible was broken , the oxide was found in a pulverulent state ; and , from white , was become perfectly black .
In order to form a phosphuret , some phosphoric acid was poured upon a portion of the white oxide ; and , being evaporated to dryness , the whole was put into a crucible coated with charcoal , as above described .
The crucible was then placed in a forge belonging to Mr. CHENEVIX ; and a strong heat was kept up for half an hour .
The enclosed matter was spongy , and of a dark brown ; it in some measure resembled phosphuret of titanium .
After this , we wished to try the effect of a still greater heat ; but in this experiment the crucible was melted .
The above experiments show , that the white oxide , like several other metallic substances , may be deoxidated to a certain degree , without much difficulty , but that the complete reduction of it is still far from being easily effected ,

