Chemical Experiments on Zoophytes ; with some Observations on the component Parts of Membrane .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 12 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 327 .
] Having completed the series of experiments on the component parts of shell and bone which he described in a former paper , it was suggested to Mr. Hatchett that there still remained a large class of substances belonging to the animal kingdom , namely , the various species of Zoophytes , which had never yet been carefully analysed , and the investigation of which would probably lead to some curious , and perhaps useful inferences .
Although aware of the extensiveness of the inquiry , he yet readily engaged in it ; and we have now before us the fruit of his indefatigable industry and ardent zeal for the advancement of science .
The first part of the paper contains a full account of the series of experiments he made on the abovementioned substances , which , in the present pressure for time , we must pass over unnoticed in order to hasten to the second , which consists of observations on those experiments , in the course of which the subject necessarily led to an inquiry into the nature and properties of several other analogous substances , such as horn , nail , hoof , quill , hair , feathers , tortoiseshell , the scales of fish , amphibious animals and insects , albumen , and even muscular fibre .
We must here recollect that in his former paper on shell and bone Mr. Hatchett had arrived at the conclusion that their essential ingredients were carbonate of lime in the former , and phosphate of lime in the latter , the bases in both consisting of different modifications of a glutinous , gelatinous , or membranaceous substance .
This conclusion he had the satisfaction of seeing corroborated , and the chain of connexion widely extended , by the facts deduced from the present inquiry .
The general results of which are , that the Madrepores and Millepores ( like several of the shells ) are formed of a gelatinous or membranaceous substance , hardened by carbonate of lime , the difference consisting only in the mode in which these materials are combined : that in the Tubipora , Flustra and Corallina , some phosphate of lime is mixed with the carbonate of lime : that in the Isis the basis is a regularly organized membranaceous , cartilaginous and horny substance , hardened by carbonate of lime , one species only ( the Isis ochracea ) yielding also a small proportion of phosphate of lime .
That the hardening substance of the Gorgonia nobilis is likewise the carbonate of lime , with a small portion of phosphate ; but that the matter forming the membranaceous basis consists of two parts , the interior being gelatinous , and the external a complete membrane , so formed as to cover the stem in the manner of a sheath or tube .
That the other Gorgoniae consist of a horny stem coated by a membrane , which is hardened by carbonate ' of lime .
That the Sponges are of a nature similar to the horny stems of the Gorgoniae , and only differ from these and from each other by the quality of texture , And lastly , that the Alcyonia are likewise composed of a soft flexible membranaceous substance , very similar to the cortical part of some of the Gorgonise ; and in like manner slightly hardened by carbonate , mixed with a small portion of phosphate of lime .
From this mass of evidence we collect , in general , that the varieties of bone , shell , coral , and the numerous tribe of Zoophytes with which the last are connected , only differ in composition by the nature and quantity of the hardening or ossifying principle , and by the state of the .
substance with which this principle is mixed or connected ; the gluten , or jelly , which cements the particles of carbonate or phosphate of lime , and the membrane , cartilage , or horny substance which serves as a basis , appearing to be only modifications of the same substance , which progressively graduates from a viscidliquid , or gluten , into a gelatinous substance , which again , by increased inspissation , and by the more or less perfect degrees of organic arrangement , forms the varieties of membrane , cartilage , and horn , which it seems form the peculiar differences of the several species .
It is obvious that in this inquiry much depends upon an accurate investigation of the gluten , or jelly , so often mentioned as a principal ingredient in the substances under examination .
This gave rise to the experiments ol the analogous substances above mentioned , which led to a better acquaintance with the substance which now obtains the name of gelatin .
Not being allowed to enter into a detail of these experiments , we shall only observe at present , that this gelatin is a component part of most of the animal substances above enumerated ; that it varies in quality from a very attenuated jelly or mucilage , to that viscid substance called glue , the varieties of which also differ in solubility and tenacity : that it is present in various proportions , so that certain bodies , such as the cutis and cartilages of the articulations , seem to be entirely formed by it ; while others , like nail , quill and tortoiseshell , can hardly be said to contain any ; and that by its presence in various states and.proportions , it may be regarded as the principal cause of those degrees of flexibility , of elasticity and of putrescibility , so various in different parts of animals .
In all these substances , when all the gelatin they contained .
had been separated , either by repeated boiling in water , or by being steeped in dilute acids , : a more insoluble substance remained of a very different nature from the gelatin , and which became the object of another extensive analysis .
The results here led to the curious and importalt conclusion , that the substance known by the name of albumen is in fact the primary animal matter from which all the others , and even the gelatin and the animal fibre , are ultimately derived , the formation of the t'wo latter beginning with the process of sanguification in the foetus , and the immense variety in the animal creation being deducible from the infinite diversity and modifications in texture , flexibility , elasticity , and other properties of the same substance composing the several parts which constitute the bodies of animals .

