A third Series of Experiments on an artificial Substance , which possesses the principal characteristic Properties of Tannin ; with some Remarks on Coal .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 16 , 1806 , [ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 109 .
] Mr. Hatchett , in his former communications on this subject , gave some account of the effects produced by sulphuric acid upon turpentine , resin , and camphor .
He now states the results of a variety of experiments made with that acid upon a great number of resins , balsams , gum-resins , and gums ; from which it appears , that sulphuric acid almost immediately dissolved the resins , forming transparent brown solutions , which gradually became black .
; that the solutions of the balsams and of guaiacum were at first of a deep crimson colour , slightly inclining to brown ; and that caoutchouc and elastic bitumen were not dissolved , but , after a long digestion , were only superficially carbonized .
Turpentine , common resin , elemi , tucamahaca , mastic , copaiba , copal , camphor , benzoin , the balsams of Tolu and of Peru , assafoetida , and amber , yielded a large proportion of the tanning substance ; so also did oil of turpentine .
Asphaltum yielded only a small portion of that substance ; and some slight traces of it were obtained from gum arabic and from gum tragacanth ; but none was produced from guaiacum , dragon 's blood , myrrh , gum ammoniac , olibanum , gamboge , caoutchouc , elastic bitumen , liquorice , and manna .
Mr. Hatchett thinks , however , that some of these would have yielded it , had not the digestion with nitric acid been too long continued .
Olive oil was partly converted into the tanning substance ; so also were linseed oil , wax , and animal fat .
In the experiment with linseed oil , a portion was left undissolved : this portion appeared to retain many of the properties of an inspissated fat oil .
In the experiment made with wax , a white substance was obtained , which was found to possess the properties of spermaceti .
In that with animal fat ( in which the kidney-fat of veal was employed ) , a great portion of a grayish-black substance was produced , which was highly inflammable , was easily melted , and was readily dissolved in cold alcohol ; from which , like the resins , it might be precipitated by water .
From coagulated albumen , and from prepared muscular fibre , nothing but coal could be obtained .
In the above experiments there appeared to be a certain period of the process when the production of the tanning substance arrived at its maximum ; after which a gradual diminution , and at length a total destruction of it , took place , and it became mere coal .
Some experiments are now related , made with nitric acid , on the elastic bitumen , and on several kinds of coal .
The result was , that from elastic bitumen , common pit-coal , Cannel-coal , and asphaltum , there was obtained , not only the tanning substance , but also another substance , which possessed properties intermediate between those of resin and those of vegetable extractive matter ; but this substance might , by digestion in nitric acid , be converted into the tanning substance .
From Kilkenny-coal , and from two other kinds of coal , one from Wales , the other from North America , none of the above-mentioned resinous substances were obtained .
Mr. Hatchett now proceeds to mention a variety of experiments made on horse-chestnuts , and on their peels .
From these it appeared , that the small portion of tannin originally contained in horse-chestnut peels is destroyed by the process of roasting ; but that the brown decoctions of the roasted horse-chestnuts , and of their peels , might be made to afford the tannin matter , by the addition of nitric acid .
The above brown decoctions appeared to contain carbon , combined with oxygen , sufficient to give it many of the properties of coal ; but the compound is nevertheless capable of being dissolved by water with great facility .
Solutions similar to the above may , our author thinks , be obtained whenever vegetable matter undergoes the putrefactive process , as in dunghills , &amp;c. He examined the brown liquor that runs from walnutpeels when kept in a heap for a certain time , and found that , like the decoctions above mentioned , it contained carbon in a state approaching to coal , and that , by the addition of nitric acid , a small portion of the tanning substance might be procured from it .
Some experiments were likewise made upon galls ; the results of which showed , that the natural tannin contained in them is destroyed by nitric acid ; that it is also diminished , and ultimately destroyed , by roasting ; but when the galls have not been so much roasted as to destroy the whole of the tannin , the remainder of that substance is destroyed by the addition of nitric acid , whilst , at the same time , a small portion of the artificial tannin is produced .
Results nearly similar were obtained from experiments upon oakbark ; and it also appeared , that when that bark was exhausted of its natural tannin , it might , by roasting and being treated with nitric acid , be made to yield the artificial tanning substance .
This process was several times repeated upon the same portion of bark ; and as it still continued to yield the tanning substance , our author thinks it probable the process might be repeated until the whole of the bark became converted into the above substance .
From the foregoing experiments , and many others made by him , Mr. Hatchett thinks that the method of treating roasted vegetable substances here described is the most speedy and economical for obtaining the artificial tanning matter ; and , as all refuse vegetables may be thus converted into that matter by simple and unexpensive means , he hopes the discovery may eventually be productive of some real public advantage .
In a former paper Mr. Hatchett observed , that he suspected the tannin found in some peat-moors was produced during the imperfect carbonization of the original vegetable substances : whether that is really the case , or whether it has been afforded by heath or other vegetables growing upon and near the peat , is , he says , still uncertain , as he has never been able to detect any tanning substance in peat , although he has examined a considerable number of varieties of it .
The great facility with which tannin is dissolved by water causes it to be speedily extracted and drained from the substances which at first contained it : and that this facility of extraction extends to the most solid vegetable bodies , is shown by an experiment made by our author on a piece of oak from the submerged forest at Sutton , on the coast of Lincolnshire , described in the Phil. Trans. for the year 1799 .
This oak , by decoction , afforded extractive matter , but no traces of tannin could be perceived ; yet , by incineration , it even afforded potash .
Peat , however , although it does not contain tannin , is , by the imperfect carbonization it has undergone , rendered capable of being converted , by treatment with nitric acid , into the artificial tanning substance , in the manner already mentioned with respect to roasted ligneous bodies .
In the following section of his paper , Mr. Hatchett compares the effect of the acetic , sulphuric , and nitric acids , upon resinous substances .
The first of these he considers as the solvent of such substances , as it dissolves them speedily , without producing any apparent subsequent change in their natural properties ; so that , by proper precipitants , they may be separated from that .
acid in an unaltered state .
Sulphuric acid immediately dissolves resinous substances ; but the moment the solution is complete , progressive alterations appear to take place in the dissolved substance , coal being the ultimate product .
The effects of nitric acid seem to be the reverse of those of the sulphuric ; for by nitric acid the resins are converted into a brittle porous substance , then into a soluble product intermediate between extractive matter and resin , which product is converted into the first variety of the tanning substance ; beyond which our author has not been able to effect any change .
A table of the quantity of coal remaining after the treatment of various resinous substances with sulphuric acid is now given ; respecting which we shall only remark , that a much greater proportion of coal is obtained from those substances by means of the above acid than can be obtained by distillation .
TWo experiments on the humid formation of coal are also described : from one of these it appears that oak-wood may , by sulphuric acid , be converted into a coal which is very different from charcoal , and which , by its mode of burning , and by its not affording any alkali , resembles those mineral coals that do not contain bitumen .
The other experiment shows that oak-wood may also be converted into a sort of coal by muriatic acid ; but this coal retains some vegetable characters , although no alkali can be obtained from its ashes .
Mr. Hatchett now proceeds to make some remarks on the natural formation of coal .
After stating the various theories that have been formed on that subject , he considers as the most probable the theory which ascribes the principal origin of coal to vegetable substances ; that idea of its origin being , he says , corroborated by the greater number of geological facts .
The observations , however , that have been made upon the submerged wood found at Sutton and other places , show , our author thinks , that vegetable substances , buried under the sea or under the earth , are not , merely by such means , converted even into the most imperfect sort of coal ; some other process being evidently necessary to produce this change , which in a former paper he endeavoured to demonstrate to be progressive .
&lt; That some sorts of coal are of vegetable origin , there cannot , Mr. Hatchett says , be any doubt : several of them , as the Bovey coal , the Sussex coal , the surturbrand , &amp;c. not only still retain some of their external vegetable characters , but also yield resin , -a substance allowed to belong exclusively to organized natural bodies .
Some mineralogists , however , have attempted to distinguish the abovementioned coals from others , which they denominate True Mineral Coals : but it has in the former part of this paper been shown , that when pit-coal , Cannel-coal , and asphaltum , ( which are considered as of mineral origin , ) are subjected to the action of nitric acid , and the process is stopped at a proper period , there remains a substance which is intermediate between resin and vegetable extractive matter .
It has also been stated , that , by similar means , a substance possessing nearly the same properties may be obtained from the known vegetable resins .
Our author indeed admits that bitumen has never been formed by any artificial process , and that he has himself attempted it , in various ways , without success : yet we may conclude , from what has been already said , that bitumen is a modification of the resinous and oily parts of vegetables , produced by some process of nature , operated by gradual means on immense masses ; and we have , he thinks , great reason to conclude that the agent employed by nature in the formation of coal and bitumen is either the muriatic or the sulphuric acid .
Common salt , however , is never found in coal-mines , except when they are in the vicinity of salt-springs ; whilst , on the contrary , pyrites , sulphate of iron , and alum , are commonly found in such mines ; from which circumstances , together with the sulphureous odour emitted by most of the mineral coals when burned , the agency of sulphuric acid is strongly evinced ; and , as we have already observed , the coals formed artificially from vegetable substances , by means of sulphuric acid , bear a strong resemblance to the mineral coals , not only in their external characters , but also in their other properties .
Mr. Hatchett intends , he says , to relinquish any further prosecution of this subject for the present ; but he entertains such sanguine expectations of its proving economically usefil , that he strongly recommends the prosecution of the inquiry , particularly of that part which relates to roasted vegetable substances and to peat .

