On an artificial Substance which possesses the principal characteristic Properties of Tannin .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read April 25 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 211 .
] Mr. Hatchett , after mentioning the experiments made by several eminent chemists on the substance generally called Tannin ( but which he thinks would be better expressed by the word Tan ) , observes , that the results of those experiments have established , that tan is a peculiar substance , naturally formed , and existing in many vegetable bodies , such as oak bark , &amp;c. ; but that no one has ever supposed it could be produced by art , unless a fact observed by Mr. Chenevix , namely , that a decoction of coffee-berries did not precipitate gelatine until they had been roasted , may be considered as an exception .
Some recent experiments , however , have , he says , convinced him , that tan may be formed , not only from vegetables , but even from mineral and animal substances .
The powerful effects observed by Mr. Hatchett to be produced on resinous substances by nitric acid , and the discovery made by him of a natural substance , composed partly of resin and partly of asphaltum , induced him to extend his experiments to the bitumens .
He had found , that almost every species of resin is completely dissolved in nitric acid , and so totally changed that water does not cause any separation ; and that , by evaporation , a deep yellow viscid substance is obtained , equally soluble in water or in alcohol : whereas , the first effect of the above acid on some of the bitumens , for instance , asphaltum and jet , was to form a dark brown solution , whilst an orangecoloured mass was separated , which , by subsequent digestion in another portion of nitric acid , was completely dissolved , and , by evaporation , afforded a yellow viscid substance , nearly similar to that obtained from the resins .
But coals , which contained little or no bitumen , did not yield the yellow substance above mentioned .
Mr. Hatchett then made a similar experiment upon charcoal , and found it was more readily dissolved than the preceding substances ; no residuum was left ; and the solution was of a reddish brown colour .
All the above solutions , when carefully evaporated to dryness , left a brown glossy residuum , which exhibited a resinous fracture ; that left by the solution of charcoal having the most beautiful appearance .
The chemical properties of these residua were as follows:1 .
They were speedily dissolved by cold water and by alcohol .
2 .
Their flavour was highly astringent .
3 .
When exposed to heat , they smoked but little , swelled much , and afforded a very bulky coal .
4 .
Their solutions in water reddened litmus-paper .
5 .
These solutions copiously precipitated the metallic salts , especially muriate of tin , acetite of lead , and oxysulphate of iron .
6 .
They precipitated gold from its solution in the metallic state .
7 .
They also precipitated the earthy salts , such as the nitrates of lime , of barytes , &amp;c. 8 .
The fixed alkalies , as well as ammonia , deepen the colour of these solutions , and , after some hours , render them turbid .
9 .
Glue or isinglass was immediately precipitated from water by these solutions .
These precipitates were , in every respect , similar to those formed by the solutions of tan hitherto known , excepting that this factitious tan appeared to be exempt from the extract , gallic acid , and mucilage , which commonly accompany natural tan .
Mr. Hatchett , having thus discovered that tan might be so readily formed from vegetable and mineral coals , was led to examine whether it could not also be formed from animal coal .
For this purpose , he reduced a portion of isinglass to the state of coal , and digested it in nitric acid , which at first did not appear to act upon it , but at length slowly dissolved almost the whole of it .
The solution resembled those which have been described , but was of a deeper brown colour ; and , when evaporated to dryness , left a residuum , which , upon being examined by the re-agents employed in the former experiments , was found to produce similar effects .
It appears evident , therefore , that tan may be formed from animal as well as from vegetable and mineral coal ; and it also appears , from what has been stated , that it is composed of carbon , combined with a certain proportion of oxygen .
It seems , however , necessary that the carbon should be uncombined with any other substance .
In support of this opinion , Mr. Hatchett mentions the following experiments : 1 .
A piece of Bovey coal , which appeared like half-charred wood , upon being treated with nitric acid , formed a solution of a deep yellow colour : this solution , when evaporated , left a residuum , which , dissolved in distilled water , and examined by various re-agents , particularly by gelatine , did not show any signs of its containing tan ; the predominant substance appearing to be oxalic acid .
2 .
Another piece of Bovey coal , which was more perfectly carbonized , afforded a brown solution , which , unlike the former , yielded a considerable quantity of tan .
3 .
A portion of the first-mentioned sort of Bovey coal , by being exposed to a red heat in a close vessel , and then treated as before , was thus converted , almost entirely , into tan .
4 .
A coal from Sussex , very like the second sort of Bovey coal , also afforded tan .
5 .
A piece of Surturbrand , from Iceland , yielded a similar result .
6 .
Deal sawdust , treated in the same manner a.s the former substances , afforded oxalic acid , but not any tan .
7 .
Another portion of the same sawdust was reduced into charcoal , which , treated as before , was thereby converted into tan .
8 .
Teak wood , which Mr. Hatchett had previously ascertained not to contain either gallic acid or tan , was reduced into charcoal , which was as readily converted into tan as the substances already mentioned .
Mr. Hatchett then adverts to a series of experiments he is making on the slow carbonization of vegetable substances in the humid way , a few of which , he says , he is compelled to notice , on account of their being intimately connected with the present subject .
In these experiments he has observed , that concentrated sulphuric acid dissolves resinous substances , forming a yellowish brown transparent solution , which , by digestion , becomes intensely black .
Concentrated sulphuric acid readily dissolves the common turpentine of the shops .
If a portion of this solution be immediately poured into cold water , the turpentine is precipitated , in the state of common yellow resin .
But if another portion of the same solution be , after the lapse of an hour or more , poured into cold water , the resin thus foried is not yellow , but dark brown .
If four or five hours elapse before the solution is poured into the water , the resin precipitated is found to be completely black .
And if the digestion is continued for several days , or until there is no longer any production of sulphureous gas , the turpentine is converted into a black porous coal , which does not contain any resin , although a substance hereafter noticed may frequently be separated from it by digestion in alcohol .
When common resin was treated in the same manner , about 43 per cent. of the coal was obtained , which , after exposure to a red heat in a loosely-covered platina crucible , still amounted to more than 30 per cent. , and appeared to possess properties very similar to those of some of the mineral coals .
Mr. Hatchett having obtained , in the manner above described , yellow resin , brown resin , black resin , and coal , from a quantity of common turpentine , dissolved a portion of each of these , and also of the turpentine , in nitric acid , and then reduced the solutions to dryness .
The residua , which varied in colour , from yellow to dark brown , were dissolved in distilled water , and examined by solution of isinglass and other re-agents .
1 .
The solution of the residuum of turpentine was of a pale straw colour , and did not contain any tan .
2 .
That of the yellow resin resembled the former in every respect .
3 .
That of the brown resin was of a deeper yellow , but did not afford a vestige of tan .
4 .
That of the black resin , on the contrary , afforded a considerable portion of tan .
5 .
That of the coal afforded tan in great abundance .
Hence it appears , that these modifications of turpentine yield tan only in proportion to the quantity of their original carbon , progressively converted into coal .
Other substances , particularly various kinds of wood , copal , amber , and wax , when reduced into coal in the humid way , were in like manner converted into tan by nitric acid .
But tan may , Mr. Hatchett says , be artificially produced , without the help of nitric acid ; for if any of the resins , or gum resins , after long digestion with sulphuric acid , are digested with alcohol , a dark brown solution is formed , which , by evaporation , yields a mass that is soluble in water or in alcohol , and which copiously precipitates gelatine , acetate of lead , and muriate of tin , but produces only a slight effect on oxymuriate of iron .
In the subsequent section of this paper , Mr. Hatchett mentions some circumstances which induce him to think that a natural process , similar to those above described , sometimes takes place in peat moors , and that tan has been , and continues to be , formed during the gradual carbonization and conversion of the vegetable matter into peat .
Supposing this opinion to be correct , it seems , he says , at first difficult to conceive how the formation of tan is effected during the growth of those vegetables from which it has bitherto been obtained ; but after adverting to the experiinents and observations of Mr. Biggin and Mr. Davy , which show that the proportion of tan in the same trees is different at different seasons , and that it is principally contained in the white interior bark , which bark is comparatively most abundant in young trees , he observes , that there seems to be an intimate connexion between the formation of new wood and the formation of tan , in those vegetables which afford the latter ; and thinks it very probable that such vegetables have the facult3r-of absorbing more carbon and oxygen than is required in the formation of the vegetable principles , especially of the woody fibre ; and that this excess of carbon and oxygen , by chemical combination , becomes tan , which is secreted in the white interior bark , and afterwards decomposed , and employed in the formation of the new wood .
The ligneous substance of vegetables , Mr. Hatchett says , appears to be composed of carbon , oxygen , hydrogen , and nitrogen ; and he has reason to think , from some synthetical experiments he has made , that tan consists of 53 parts of pure carbon , and 47 of oxygen .
In the concluding section , Mr. Hatchett observes , that the whole of the present paper may be concentrated into one simple fact , namely , that tan is composed ( at least essentially ) of carbon and oxygen ; and that , although it has hitherto been deemed a peculiar principle , formed by nature in certain vegetables , it may , with the greatest ease , be produced , by presenting oxygen to carbon in the humid way , under the circumstances which have been described .
Since the experiments which have been related were made , Mr. Hatchett has , he says , further proved the efficacy of the factitious tan by actual practice ; as he has converted skins into leather by means of tan produced from materials which , to professional men , must appear extraordinary , such as deal sawdust , asphaltum , turpentine , pit-coal , wax candle , and a piece of the same sort of skin .
Allowing , therefore , that the artificial production of tan must for the present be principally regarded only as a curious chemical fact , not altogether unimportant , yet , as the principle on which it is founded has been developed , we may , Mr. Hatchett thinks , hope that a more economical process will be discovered , so that every tanner may be enabled to prepare his tan , even from the refuse of his present materials .

