Experiments and Observations on the various Alloys , on the specific Gravity , and on the comparative Wear of Gold .
Being the Substance of a Report made to the Right Honourable the Lords of the Committee of Privy Council , appointed to take into Consideration the State of the Coins of this Kingdom , and the present Establishment and Constitution of His Majesty 's Mint .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 13 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 43 .
] From the introduction to this paper we learn , that in the year 1798 , His Majesty was pleased to appoint a committee of members of his Privy Council , to take into consideration the state of the coins of the kingdom ; and that this committee , having remarked the considerable loss which the gold coin in particular had sustained by wear within certain periods , had applied to Mr. Cavendish and Mr. Hatchett for their opinion what were the causes of this diminution , and what remedy might be applied to the defects by which it is occasioned .
The mode of carrying on this investigation having been agreed upon by these two gentlemen , it fell to Mr. Hatchett 's lot to perform the preconcerted experiments , and to draw up the account of them .
Of this account , as it was too voluminous , and consisted of too many tables to be read in public , Mr. Hatchett has been pleased to communicate to the Society the Abstract , the reading of which took up the whole of this and the preceding meeting .
On a general contemplation of the subject , it soon occurred that the inquiry was to be directed to two principal points ; -1st , which of the two sorts of gold , whether that which is very ductile , or that which is as hard as is compatible with the process of coining , suffers the greatest loss under the general circumstances of friction ; -and 2dly , whether coins with flat , smooth , and broad surfaces , wear less or more than coins which have certain protuberant parts raised above the ground or general level of the pieces .
With a view of arriving at some certain data respecting these questions , three objects were principally kept in view , which gave rise to the three sections that compose the body of the paper .
The first of these comprehends the chemical experiments , those which relate to the effects produced upon gold by the addition of different metals in certain relative proportions ; the second includes those experiments which relate to the different degrees of density observed in gold when differently alloyed ; -and the third consists of those experiments which may be called mechanical , and which were expressly intended to ascertain the comparative wear of different:kinds of gold by various modes of friction .
In the numerous set of experiments which are described in the first section , the effects of every metal and semi-metal upon the colour and ductility of gold were ascertained with all possible care and precision .
All the semi-metals were found to affect the quality of gold too essentially , though in different degrees , to be ever used as alloys .
And among the metals , lead in very small proportions was likewise found to render gold so completely brittle , as to be absolutely unfit for coinage .
Tin was not near so pernicious ; and iron , though it turned gold much paler , yet did not materially affect its ductility .
With respect to platina , one-twelfth of this metal , alloyed with gold , turned the latter metal to a colour similar to that of tarnished silver , but did not essentially diminish its ductility .
Hence it is inferred , that a mixture of platina with gold , with a view to the adulteration of coin , need not be so much apprehended as was once the case , since the remarkable change of colour is a sufficient criterion to detect the fraud .
The ultimate results of the experiments on copper and silver are , that these , either jointly or separately , are the only metals fit for alloys to reduce fine gold to the standard ; care only must be taken that they , especially the copper , be of the purest sort ; for which purpose , the fine granulated Swedish copper is recommended as the most proper .
A mixture of the two metals ought to have the preference , as the colour of the gold is least , affected by it .
2 .
In examining , in the second section , the specific gravity of gold made standard by different metals , single or mixed , it was found that several variations take place from causes independent of any defects in the hydrostatical operations .
These are imputed to occasional imperfections in the interior texture of the mass during the processes of melting and casting ; to a difference of density in parts of even the same mass ; to the nature and position of the mould in which the metal is cast , -a long mould in a vertical position always producing a bar of metal more dense at the bottom than towards the top .
; to peculiar effects which certain metals produce when employed as alloys , and which are often very different from the results of calculation ; and , lastly , to the effect of friction , which , as it is well known to generate heat , cannot , by the expansion it occasions , but affect the specific gravity of the metal .
It hence follows , that as the specific gravity of metals is liable to be influenced by such a numerous variety of causes , it is almost in vain to expect absolute precision in the results of such experiments , and that a near approximation is all that can be demanded .
From the experiments made upon separate and entire ingots of gold , reduced to standard by silver and copper , separately and conjointly , it was proved that their specific gravities were as follows:goldl made standard by silver , 17*927 ; gold made standard by equal parts of silver and copper , 17-344 ; and gold made standard by copper , 17-157 .
Hence it appears that the specific gravity of our gold coin , which is generally alloyed by a mixture of the two metals , must be found somewhere between the two extremes just now mentioned ; or , making allowances for small variations , arising from accidental causes , between 18 and 17 .
3 .
In the third section , which treats of the comparative wear of gold when variously alloyed , we find , in the first place , an account of three modes or contrivances for ascertaining the quantity of abra- .
sion by friction , according to the different circumstances of alloy and figure in the coins .
In the first , two sets of coins were fastened , each in a frame , one of which was made to move backwards and forwards over the other with certain determined degrees of velocity and pressure .
In the second , 200 pieces of gold differently alloyed were enclosed within a wooden box , which was kept constantly turning round , until , by the continued rubbing and striking of the pieces against each other , and against the sides of the box , they were found to be , perceptibly diminished .
And in the third mode , the pieces to be examined were pressed against the rim of a flat horizontal wheel , by means of equal weights , so that by turning the wheel round , they all suffered an equal degree of friction .
The part of the wheel against which the pieces rubbed was sprinkled or coated with some kind of powder , which was varied in the different experiments , The general results of the many experiments made with this apparatus were , 1 .
That when equal friction , assisted by a moderate pressure , takes place between pieces of coin which are in each series of a similar quality , then , abrasion is most commonly produced in an inverse ratio to the degree of ductility ; -2 .
That the contrary -effect happens when pieces of different qualities rub against each other , the more ductile metal being then worn by that which is harder ; and 3 .
That earthy powders and metallic filings produce similar effects , and tend to wear the different kinds of gold in proportion to their respective degrees of ductility .
The practical inferences to be deduced from these results .
are , that pure gold , being extremely ductile , is not the most proper to be formed into coin ; that gold , on the other hand , brought by its alloy to the greatest degree of hardness that will bear the manipulation of coining , will be so destructive to the instruments in the Mint , as to.render the expense occasioned by this detriment much greater than the small saving that would accrue from the greater durability of the metal ; and that hence gold of a moderate ductility must be that which is best adapted for coin , which degree of ductility will be found in the standard proportion of one-twelfth of alloy consisting of about equal parts of silver and copper .
Several incidental circumstances .
are mentioned at the close of this paper , some of which relate to the cause of the changes of colour in gold coins , which are ascribed to certain chemical changes in the alloy near the surface of the piece during the processes of annealing and blanching .
We are also informed that the obliteration of the impressions on gold coins is not always attended with a diminution of weight , but that the supposed abrasion of the prominent parts is in fact a depression of those parts into the mass , bringing them to a level with the rest .
Upon the whole , our author concludes that the great loss which the gold coin of this kingdom is stated to have sustained , cannot possibly be attributed to any important defect in the composition or quality of the standard gold ; and that all that can be said upon this subject is , that some portion of this loss may have been caused by the rough impression and milled edge now in use , by which each piece of coin acts and is acted upon by the others , in the manner of a file or rasp .

