Additional Experiments and Remarks on an artificial Substance , which possesses the principal characteristic Properties of Tannin .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 27 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 285 .
] Mr. Hatchett was , he says , at first inclined to consider the artificial tanning product as exactly similar to the natural vegetable principle called tannin ; but as there appeared to be a considerable difference between them with respect to the effect of nitric acid ( which acid produces the one while it destroys the other ) , he thought it necessary to make some experiments on the comparative effects of this acid on those substances which contain the largest proportions of tannin .
He accordingly subjected the artificial product , sometimes alone , and sometimes mixed with other substances , to the action of nitric acid ; and although Mr. Hatchett cannot , he says , assert that this substance is absolutely indestructible when repeatedly distilled with that acid , yet the results of his experiments showed that the destruction of it , by that means , would be a work of considerable time and difficulty .
Muriatic acid also , appeared to have no effect on this substance ; and Mr. Hatchett remarks , that the solutions of it seem to be completely imputrescible , also , that they do not become mouldy , like the infusions of galls , sumach , &amp;c. * Some comparative experiments were then made , by means of nitric acid , on galls , sumach , Pegu cutch , kascutti ; common cutch , and oak-bark ; from which it appeared , that although the artificial product is by much the most indestructible of all the tanning substances , yet there is some difference in that respect between the various kinds of natural tannin ; common cutch and the tannin of oak-bark resisting the effects of nitric acid much more thain galls , sumach , kascutti , and Pegu cutch .
A number of miscellaneous experiments on the substance here treated of are then described , of which we shall only mention one , made to show the effects of heat upon it .
Twenty grains of the substance , prepared by means of nitric acid from pure vegetable charcoal , were subjected to a high degree of heat in a glass retort .
A small quantity of nitric acid , from which the substance had not been entirely freed , first came over ; after this a considerable quantity of ammonia was suddenly produced , which was succeeded by carbonic acid and a small quantity of nitrogen gas .
A bulky coal , weighing 8grains , remained , which , by incineration , yielded 1I grain of brownish white ashes , consisting principally of lime .
Mr. Hatchett now relates an experiment made with indigo , by which he ascertained , that a variety of the vegetable tanning substance might be formed without previously converting the vegetable body into coal ; and he has , he says , since discovered , that although indigo yields this substance more readily than most other vegetable bodies , yet very few of those bodies are to be considered as exceptions .
He had in his former paper stated , that in his experiments upon common resin it was necessary to develope part of the carbon in the state of coal by sulphuric acid , in order to produce the tanning substance ; but he has since found , that when the abstraction of nitric acid was several times repeated , that substance might be obtained not only from common resin , but also from several other resinous bodies .
In the course of these experiments Mr. Hatchett found , that by treating dragon 's blood with nitric acid , a feather-like sublimate was produced , which had the aspect , odour , and properties of benzoic acid , although no vestige of this acid could be obtained by simply exposing the dragon 's blood to heat .
Guaiacum , although similar in its general character to resins , when treated as above , yielded only slight vestiges of the tanning product , but , like the gums , afforded a large quantity of oxalic acid .
In the following section Mr. Hatchett observes , that the decoctions of several roasted vegetable substances did not afford any precipitate with a solution of isinglass ; even a decoction of coffee did not afford a precipitate until several hours had elapsed ; but by adding a small quantity of nitric acid to any of the above decoctions , the tanning substance might be procured from them .
Lastly , the author describes some experiments made by him in order to procure the tanning substance from camphor .
For this purpose 100 grains of camphor were dissolved in sulphuric acid , and , after four days , at which time the production of sulphureous acid gas had nearly ceased , cold water was added , and the whole was subjected to distillation ; by this , about 3 grains of an essential oil were obtained ; and as by a second distillation with water no more essential oil came over , the residuum was treated with successive portions of alcohol until that solvent ceased to act upon it .
The residuum had now the appearance of a compact coal , and after desiccation weighed 53 grains .
The solution formed by alcohol , upon being distilled , left a blackish brown substance , weighing 49 grains .
This substance appeared , by experiments made upon it , to be a variety of the artificial tanning matter , much resembling that obtained from resinous bodies by means of sulphuric acid ; but it is remarkable , that when a small quantity of nitric acid was added to an aqueous solution of the substance obtained from camphor , and , after evaporation to dryness , the residuum was dissolved in water , a reddish brown liquid was formed , which acted in a manner exactly similar to the tanning substance obtained from carbonaceous substances by nitric acid .

