XV .
" Researches on the Hydrocarbons of the series C , H2 , n+2 .
--No .
V. On Octyl compounds .
" By C. SCHORLEMMER .
Communicated by Prof. STOKEs , Sec..IS .
Received June 17 , 1869 .
After I had found that the octylalcohol obtained by distilling castor oil with caustic soda , is methyl-hexyl carbinol , or a secondary alcohol* , it appeared to me of great interest to study the chemical structure of those alcohols which can be obtained from the different hydrocarbons of the formula C8 H8 , , the more so as Cahours and Pelouze assert that the derivatives of the octane contained in petroleum are identical with those derived from the castor-oil alcoholt , a statement which was afterwards confirmed by Chapmanl + .
The hydrocarbons which I used for my experiments were hydride of octyl , or octane from petroleum , and the hydrocarbon of the same composition , which I obtained by acting upon iso-octyl iodide with zinc and hydrochloric acid .
The two hydrocarbons , as well as their derivatives , resemble each other in their physical properties so much , that one would be inclined to consider them as identical ; their chemical properties , however , prove that they are only isomeric .
( 1 ) Derivatives of Octanefrom Petroleum .
The boiling-point of this hydrocarbon is given differently by different observers between 116 ?
and 120 ?
; according to my latest researches , it appears to boil a few degrees higher .
After fractionating it for a very long time , the greater portion was found to boil between 120 ?
and 125 ?
; it was now heated with nitric acid and again fractionated over sodium .
A considerable portion distilled now at 119 ?
-122 ?
, but by far the largest quantity at 122 ?
-125 ? .
From this latter portion I prepared the octylchloride , a colourless liquid , which smells like oranges , and boils at 173 ?
176 ? .
This chloride was heated up to 200 ?
for several hours with concentrated acetic acid and potassium acetate .
It was thus completely decomposed ; the chief product of the reaction consisted of octylene , besides that a much smaller quantity of octyl-acetate had been formed .
This ether is a colourless liquid , boiling at 2000-2050 , and having a pleasant pear-like odour .
It was converted into octyl-alcohol by heating it with an alcoholic solution of caustic potash .
This alcohol , after being purified by washing it several times with water , and drying over fused potassium carbonate , was obtained as a colourless oily liquid , boiling at 180 ?
-182 ?
, and possessing exactly the odour of methyl-hexyl carbinol .
The alcohol was oxidized by mixing it slowly with a cold solution of 2 parts of potassium dichromate and 3 parts of sulphuric acid in 10 parts of water , care being taken to avoid as much as possible any elevation of temperature during the reaction .
As soon as a permanent brownish tinge showed that a slight excess of chromic acid was present , no more of the oxidising mixture was added .
The liquid was shaken from time to time , and distilled after a few hours .
The acid distillate was neutralized with sodium carbonate ; only a small quantity of an acid was formed ; the chief oxidation-product consisted of a neutral oil , having the odour of methyl-aeuanthol , and , like this compound , it formed with hydrogensodium sulphite a crystalline compound .
The liquid having no constant boiling-point , and the quantity being only small , I did not analyze it , but oxidised it further by heating it with the chromic-acid solution .
The acid distillate was neutralized with sodium carbonate , the solution of the sodium salts was evaporated and distilled with diluted sulphuric acid .
An oily acid , distilled over the residue in the retort , contained a large quantity of acetic acid , which was obtained pure by several distillations ; from it silver acetate was prepared and analyzed .
0-3355 of this salt contained 0-2160 silver .
Calculated for C2 13 Ag 02 .
Found .
64*67 per cent. Ag .
64-38 per cent. The distillate , which contained the oily acid , was neutralized with an excess of barium carbonate , boiled and filtered .
On evaporation , the barium salt separated in form of an amorphous skin ; it could not be obtained in the crystalline state ; I therefore dissolved it again in more water , and precipitated it fractionally with silver nitrate .
1st Precipitate. .
01535 gave 0'0754 silver .
2nd , ,. .
0-3718 , , 01798 , , Calculated for silver caproate , Foncld .
C H11 Ag , .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) 48-43 per cent. Ag .
49'12 48-36 .
In the liquid , from which the second precipitate had been filtered off , a further addition of silver nitrate did not give any more precipitate .
On evaporating it , small granular crystals separated , the analysis of which showed that they consisted of impure silver acetate ; 0 5540 contained 0'3440 silver , or 63-23 per cent. Besides caproic and acetic acids , a small quantity of an acid having the composition of caprylic acid was formed .
This acid was precipitated probably as a basic salt , together with the excess of barium-carbonate , used in neutralizing the oily acid ; it could not be extracted by boiling water .
On dissolving the mixture of barium-salt in diluted nitric acid , oily drops separated .
The liquid was distilled , the distillate neutralized with ammonia and precipitated with silver nitrate in two fractions , 1st Fraction. .
0*1344 contained 0-0566 silver .
2nd , ,. .
0'0465 , , 0'0203 , , 26 Found .
Calculated for C8 H15 AgO2 ( 1 ) ( 2 ) 43'02 per cent. Ag .
42 11 per cent. 43'87 per cent. ( 2 ) Derivatives of Octane from Methyl-hexyl Carbinol .
The alcohol obtained from castor oil is easily converted into its corresponding hydrocarbon by treating it first with iodine and phosphorus , and acting upon the iodide thus obtained with zinc and hydrochloric acid .
I have already described this hydrocarbon in a former communication ; it boils constantly at 124 ?
C. The octyl-chloride obtained from it has only a faint orange-like smell ; it boils at 174 ?
-176 ? .
Heated with concentrated acetic acid and potassium-acetate to 200 ?
, it is decomposed after a few hours , octyl-acetate and octylene being formed in about equal quantities , whilst the chloride obtained from petroleum gave about three times more octylene than acetate .
This acetate boils at 19'8 ?
-202 ?
, and has the same pear-like odour as that described above .
The alcohol prepared from it by heating it with an alcoholic solution of caustic potash , had no constant boiling-point ; it distilled between 180 ?
and 190 ?
; the greatest portion between 182 ?
and 186 ?
; its odour is very much like that of methyl-hexyl carbinol .
As I had only about 4 grammes , I could not subject it to fractional distillation .
On oxidizing it with the chromic-acid solution , the greatest care was taken to avoid rise of temperature , the solution being added very slowly until a permanent brownish colour showed that a slight excess of chromic acid was present , the vessel being all the time surrounded by cold water .
In order to have as decisive results as possible , I oxidised at the same time , and under exactly the same circumstances , 4 grammes of methyl-hexyl carbinol .
The liquids were allowed to remain together for a day , and were frequently shaken , then distilled , and the distillate neutralized with sodium carbonate .
The two results differed very widely ; methyl-hexyl carbinol was , as in my former experiments , converted into methyl-cenanthol , a small portion of which was oxidised further to acetic and caproic acids .
The caproic acid was separated by repeated distillation from the acetic acid , and neutralized with ammonia .
From this solution I purposed to prepare silver salts by fractional precipitation , but only one precipitate was obtained .
0 1113 of this salt contained 0 0536 silver .
Calculated for C0 H11 Ag 02 .
Found .
48'43 per cent. Ag .
48 16 per cent. Ag .
The octylalcohol from the pure hydrocarbon yielded a large quantity of an oily acid , and a smaller portion of a neutral oil , but not a trace of acetic acid .
The oily acid has the composition of caprylic acid ; it was analyzed as the silver salt , which was obtained by fractional precipitations .
1st Precipitate. .
0-3500 contained 0-1700 silver .
2nd , ,. .
0-3090 , , 0'1335 , , Found .
Calculated for C8 Hli Ag 02 .
I. IL .
43-02 per cent. 42-86 per cent. 43-20 per cent. The neutral oil had quite the properties of an acetone ; it gave a crystalline compound with hydrogen-sodium sulphite , and was not changed any further by the oxidising mixture in the cold ; but on heating them together , oxidation took place and fatty acids were formed , which appeared to be a mixture of propionic and valerianic acids ; of acetic acid not a trace could be detected .
1st Fraction of the silver salt. .
0'1325 gave 0-0675 silver .
2nd , , , ,,. .
0-2732 , , 01385 , , 3rd , , , , , ,. .
01562 , , 00780 , , Calculated for Found .
Silver valerate .
Silver caproate .
I. II .
III .
51'67 per cent. Ag .
48-43 per cent. Ag .
50-94 50-69 50-0 The percentage amount of silver contained in these salts corresponds better with that of valerate than that of caproate ; most probably a little caprylic acid was still present , which caused the amount of silver to be a little too small .
The solution from which these silver salts had been precipitated gave on evaporation small granular crystals , having the composition of silver propionate .
0'1738 gave 0'1033 silver .
Calculated for C H15 Ag 02 .
Found .
59'67 per cent. Ag .
59'43 .
per cent. From the results of my experiments I draw the following conclusions:(1 ) The octyl alcohol , obtained from the hydrocarbon C8 IH , , , occurring in American petroleum , consists chiefly of methyl-hexyl carbinol , C6 H , CH OH , and is therefore identical with the alcohol obtained C6 , H13 from castor oil .
Not only the physical properties of the two and their derivatives agree* , but also their oxidation products are the same ; they both give methyl oenanthol or methyl-hexyl acetone , CH } CO , which , CO Hhi , by further oxidation , splits up into acetic and caproic acids .
Besides this secondary alcohol , there is also formed a smaller quantity of a primary alcohol , as amongst the products of oxidation an acid containing eight atoms of carbon was found .
( 2 ) The hydrocarbon , C8 Hd , which is formed by replacing in methylhexyl carbinol the group hydroxyl HO by hydrogen , is different from that found in petroleum .
It gives , by the proper reactions , a considerable quantity of a primary alcohol , and a smaller quantity of a secondary one ; the latter is not identical with methyl-hexyl carbinol , but consists most probably of ethyl-amyl carbinol , C2 ij CH OH , as , on oxidation , it yields valerianic and propionic acids .
The primary alcohol appears to differ from the primary octyl alcohol , which has been found lately by Zincke in the seeds of Heracleum slpondylium* .
The essential oil of these seeds consists chiefly of an octyl acetate , boiling at 2060-208 ?
, and possessing an orange-like smell , whilst that which I obtained smells strongly of pears , and boils at 198 ?
-202 ? .
By oxydising his alcohol , Zincke obtained a caprylic acid , which solidified at 12 ?
, whilst the acid which I got remained liquid at 0 ? .
Zincke 's alcohol is most likely the normal alcohol , and that which I obtained an alcohol containing the group isopropylt .
( 3 ) On acting upon the hydrocarbons of the series CnE2s+2 with chlorine , a mixture of primary and secondary chlorides is formed .
This is proved by the fact that the alcohols derived from these chlorides yield , on oxidation , besides an acid containing the same number of atoms of carbon as the alcohol , also acetones , or the characteristic oxidation products of secondary alcohols .
Not only the above researches show this , but also my former experiments on the oxidation of amyl-alcohol prepared from the hydride , which gave , besides valerianic acid , also acetic acid and the acetone , C , Hilo 0$ .
It is certainly very remarkable that the hydrocarbon from petroleum yields methyl-hexyl carbinol , whilst the hydrocarbon which is obtained from methyl-hexyl carbinol is not reconverted into this alcohol , but gives ethyl-amyl carbinol , and besides a primary alcohol .
The further investigation of this subject is certainly of the highest theoretical interest ; but there is great difficulty in pursuing this research , as I have already observed , in consequence of the small yield of pure alcohol from large quantities of the hydrocarbons .

