II .
" On the Derivatives of Propane ( Hydride of Propyl ) .
" By C. SCHORLEMMER .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec. R.S Received March 5 , 1869 .
At the time when I commenced this investigation , the existence of normal propyl alcohol was very doubtful .
According to Chancel* , this body is found in the fusel-oil from the marc of grapes ; but Mendelegefft tried in vain to isolate it from a sample of this oil which he had obtained from Chancel himself .
Several attempts to prepare the normal alcohol by synthesis failed .
Thus Linnemann and Siersch* tried to obtain it by converting acetonitril into propylamine , by means of hydrogen in the nascent state , and decomposing the hydrochlorate of this base with silver nitrite ; but the alcohol thus formed was found to be the secondary one .
The same compound was obtained by Butlerow and Ossokint , by acting upon ethylene iodohydrine , C , H , { I , with zinc methyl , in order to replace iodine by methyl .
Now as in both cases , according to theory , the normal or primary alcohol ought to have been formed , and as we have no explanation why instead of this compound the secondary alcohol was obtained , Butlerow and Ossokin believe that the normal propyl-alcohol cannot exist .
Not agreeing with this view , I was led to an investigation of this subject , the results of which I have the honour to lay before the Society .
My reasoning was as follows:-It appears , as the most probable theory , and which is now accepted by most chemists , that the four combining powers of the carbon atom have the same value .
If so , only one hydrocarbon having the composition C , H , can exist .
This propane must be formed by replacing the iodine in the secondary propyl iodide , by hydrogen , and subjecting the hydrocarbon thus obtained to the action of chlorine , by which primary propyl chloride must be formed in accordance with the behaviour of other hydrocarbons of the same series .
I soon found that my theory was correct ; and in a short note , which I published in ' Zeitschrift fur Chemie ' ( 1868 , p. 49 ) , I stated that I had obtained the normal propyl alcohol by this method .
At the same time , Fittig proved that it was contained in fusel-oils+ , and lately Linnemann prepared it synthetically from ethyl-compounds by converting acetonitrile ( ethyl cyanide ) into propionic anhydride , and acting upon this body with nascent hydrogen ? .
The propane which I used in my researches was obtained by acting upon isopropyl iodide with zinc turnings and diluted hydrochloric acid .
A continous evolution of gas takes place if the flask containing the mixture is kept cold .
If it is not cooled down a violent reaction soon sets in .
The gas always contains vapour of the iodide , even if it has been evolved very slowly .
In order to purify it as much as possible , it was washed with Nordhausen sulphuric acid , with a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids and with caustic soda solution .
As a gas-holder I used a tubulated bell-jar , which was suspended in a larger inverted one , filled with a concentrated solution of common salt .
When a sufficient quantity of gas had collected , chlorine was passed into it , care being taken not to have it in excess .
In diffused daylight substitution-products were formed , which collected as an oily layer on the salt solution .
Alternately more propane and chlorine were passed into the apparatus , until it was nearly filled with the excess of propane and vapours of the most volatile substitution-products .
The latter were condensed by passing the gas into a receiver surrounded by a freezing-mixture .
To collect the liquid chlorides which were contained in the gasholder , the tubulus of the bell-jar was closed with cork , which was provided with a wide short glass tube , open at both ends , and so much salt solution put into the gas-holder that the chlorides entered this tube , from which they could easily be removed with a pipette .
By repeating this process several times , a quantity of chlorine compounds , sufficient for further investigation , was obtained .
This was washed with water , dried over caustic potash , and distilled .
The liquid commenced to boil at 42 ?
C. , the boiling-point rising towards the end above 200 ?
C. By fractional distillation , a comparatively small quantity of a liquid was obtained , which boiled at 42 ?
-46 ?
, and consisted of the primary propyl chloride , C , H7 C1 .
0-0975 of this chloride gave 0-1730 silver chloride , and 0-005 silver , corresponding to 0'044 chlorine .
Calculated for C3 17 C1 .
Found .
45'2 per cent. Cl. 45'5 per cent. Cl. In order to prove that this body was really the normal chloride , it had to be converted into the alcohol .
For this purpose I used that portion of the chlorides which , after repeated distillation , boiled below 80 ?
C. It was heated in sealed tubes with potassium acetate and glacial acetic acid for several hours to 200 ?
C. , and thus converted into the acetate , a light colourless liquid , possessing the characteristic odour of the acetic ethers .
I did not endeavour to obtain this ether in the pure state , as this could have been effected only with great loss of material , but converted it at once into the alcohol , by heating it with a diluted solution of potash , in sealed tubes , up to 120 ?
C. After cooling , the contents of the tubes were distilled and rectified .
A portion of it was oxidized with a cold diluted solution of chromic acid .
No gas was evolved , but a strong smell of aldehyde was perceived , which disappeared on adding more chromic acid .
On distilling to dryness , an acid liquid was obtained , which was neutralized with sodium carbonate .
The solution was evaporated to dryness , and the residue distilled with a quantity of sulphuric acid , sufficient to liberate about one-fourth of the acid .
The residue in the retort was again distilled with the same quantity of sulphuric acid , and , by repeating this process , the acid was obtained in four fractions .
Each of these was converted .
into the silver-salt by boiling with silver carbonate .
The silver-salts crystallized from the hot saturated solution in small shining needles , which were grouped in stars and feathers .
These were dried , first , over sulphuric acid , afterwards in the steam-bath , and the silver determined by ignition .
per cent. Fraction ( 1 ) 0*2350 gave 0-1404 silver=59'74 , ( 2 ) 0-2420 , , 0-1450 , , =59-91 , , ( 3 ) 0-1676 , , 0-1002 , , =59-78 , ( 4 ) 0-2124 , , 0-1264 , , =59-51 Mean ... ... 59-73 Silver propionate contains ... ... ... ... 59-67 I also prepared the lead-salt , which exhibited the properties of lead-propionate ; it did not crystallize , but dried up to an amorphous gum-like mass .
As by oxidation no other acid besides propionic was found , it follows that the alcoholic liquid could only contain normal propyl alcohol .
I tried to isolate this body from the remaining liquid , by adding potassium carbonate until it separated into two layers .
The upper one was taken off and dried , first over fused potassium carbonate , and afterwards over anhydrous baryta .
This liquid , however , proved to be a mixture ; it began to boil at 80 ?
C. , and the boiling-point rose slowly to 96 ?
C. By fractionating it could be separated into two portions-a smaller one boiling between 80u-850 , and a larger one boiling above 90 ? .
The portion boiling between 92 ?
-96 ?
gave , by combustion , numbers agreeing with the composition of propyl alcohol .
0-2238 substance gave 0*4098 carbon dioxide and 0-2675 water .
Calculated .
Found .
C3 36 60 59-81 H18 8 13-33 13-28 0 16 26-67 -60 100-00 I have not yet studied the properties of this alcohol , as I hope to obtain it soon in larger quantities .
The liquid boiling between 800-850 appears to be an acetal ; it is not acted upon by sodium , and therefore can easily be obtained free from alcohol , by distilling it over this metal .
The small quantity was just sufficient for two analyses , the results of which give C , H , , 0 , as the probable formula .
( 1 ) 0-2500 gave 0-2725 water and 0-5280 carbon dioxide .
( 2 ) 0'2755 gave 0-2950 water ; the determination of carbon was lost .
Calculated .
Found .
I. II .
C5 60 57-96 5760 H,2 12 11-53 12-11 11-93 02 32 30-78 104 100-00 How this body has been formed I cannot explain .
As I have already mentioned , chloride of propyl forms only a small fraction of the products obtained by subjecting propane to the action of chlorine , the chief product of the reaction being a liquid which boils at 940-98 ?
C. , and has the formula C3 H6 Cl , .
0-1600 gave 0-3970 silver chloride and 0-005 silver .
Calculated for 03 H6 C12 .
Found .
62-8 per cent. C1 .
62-4 per cent. This body is propylene dichloride ; for its boiling-point not only coincides with that of this compound , but also all its reactions are the same .
Heated with potassium acetate and acetic acid in closed tubes , it is readily decomposed , a high boiling acetate being formed , which , on heating with concentrated potash solution and distilling , yields a liquid the last portion of which boils between 1800-190 ?
C. , and possesses the sweet taste of propyl glycol .
I did not isolate the glycol in the pure state , but proposed to establish its structure by oxidation .
A diluted cold solution of chromic acid acts violently on it , carbon dioxide being evolved in abundance , and a strong odour of aldehyde being recognized , which , on further addition of the oxidizing liquid , was changed into that of acetic acid .
By distillation an acid liquid was obtained , which , on boiling:with silver carbonate , yielded a silver-salt , which crystallized in the well-known needles of silver acetate .
0'3013 of this salt left on ignition 0-1935 silver .
Silver acetate contains Found .
64'67 per cent Aq .
64'22 per cent. The oxidation-products ( carbon dioxide and acetic acid ) prove sufficiently that the structure of the glycol is expressed by the formula CHI--CH ( OH)--CH2 ( OH ) , which is that of the known propyl glycol .
The foregoing researches establish a general reaction for converting secondary compounds of the alcohols into those of primary radicals .
This is effected by replacing the iodine in secondary iodides by hydrogen , and subjecting the hydrocarbons thus obtained to the action of chlorine , by which the primary chlorides are formed .
Of greater interest , perhaps , as possessing an important bearing on the theory of substitution , is the fact that the second substitution-product of propane consists of propylene dichloride , having the structure CH3--CH C1 -CHE C1 .
This was the less to be expected , as ethane , C , HG , the hydrocarbon next lower in the series , yields , by acting on it with chlorine as second product , ethylidene dichloride , CH -CH Cl , .
Whilst , therefore , in propane first one hydrogen atom in the methyl group is replaced by chlorine , and afterwards one which is combined with the adjoining carbon atom , in ethane the substitution takes place at one and the same carbon atom .
The action of chlorine upon propane is certainly in contradiction to all theories of substitution which have been expounded .
In a second communication I propose to describe the higher chlorinated substitiltion-products of propane .

