IV .
" Researches on the Hydrocarbons of the Series C , H2n+2'No .
V. " By C. SCHORLEMIMER .
Commuunicated by Professor G. G. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received May 7 , 1865 .
Oidation Products .
In a formev communicationt I have shortly described the action of different oxidizing agents upon some of the saturated hydrocarbons ; the following paper contains some further results which I have since then obtained .
One of the most striking properties of these compounids is , that they are with the greatest difficulty acted upon by any oxidizing substanlce in the cold .
Oni heating them , however , a reaction sets in , and either they are completely burnt up to carbonic dioxide and water , or other oxidation products besides those two are formed in comuparatively small quanltities ; thus chromic acid produces some acetic acid .
Fuming nitric acid , which in the cold shows no action whatever , even if left in conitact with one of these hydrocarbons for moluths , acts rather violently on , gently heating ; acid of the specific gravity 14 acts in a similar way , and pr-oduces the same products , but the reaction is much less violent .
The apparatus which I* Compare , about the boiling-points of the aronmatic hydrocarbons , the elaborate paper of Kopp in Annii .
der Chem. utnd Pharm. vol. v. ( Supplemenr ) p. 315 .
t Proceediings of the Poyal Society , vol. xvi .
p. 38 , used consisted of a glass flask of about one litre capacity , the narrow neck of which was several feet in length , and surrounded by a wider tube through which cold water flowed .
The hydrocarbons treated in this way were hexylhydride and octylhydride ( from petroleum ) , and diamyl .
They were heated with the acid as long as red fumes were evolved ; the liquid left in the flask was then distilled in a retort , until the unaltered hydrocarbon together with the greater part of the diluted nitric acid had passed over .
The syrupy residue was heated in a steam-bath as long as nitric acid vapours escaped .
A thick syrupy mass was left , from which , on cooling , a crystallized acid was deposited ; on adding water these crystals dissolved , whilst a thick yellowish oil separated .
This oil is insoluble in water , but somewhat soluble in the aqueous solution of the crystalline acid , which therefore cannot be obtained quite free from the oily substance by recrystallization only ; but this may be effected by washing the crystals with cold ether , which dissolves very little of them , whilst the oil itself is very soluble .
The acid obtaiined from octylhydride and that from diamyl melted at 1800 C. , and showed all the characteristic reactions of succinic acid ; that from hexylhydrlide , from which I obtained only a very small quantity , could not be completely fireed from the yellow oil , and therefore did not show a definite melting-point ; it beg , an to fuse at about 1200 , and became perfectly liquid at 1500 ?
; it exhioited , however , all the reactions of succinic acid ; and the followingnalyses , although they do not agree very well , yet show that it was this compound .
From the acids the calcium and the silver-salt were prepared by neu"Itralizing the aqueous solution with calcium carbonate and concentrating the filtered solution by boiling , when the salt separated in microscopic needles .
Calciumr succinate obtained in this way has the formula C41E14CaO1+Il{ , 0 ; the qualntities of water and calcium found agree with this composition .
The water was determined by drying the salt at 1800 C. , and the calcium by heating the dried salt over the blowpipe uintil the residue had a constant weight .
Found Calculated for Acid from hexyl .
C4.aO + H2 0 .
hydride .
Froin diamyl .
H{20.e.eee 10-3 per cent. 9g4 per cent. 98 per cent. CaO ... ... ... .
32-2 333 326 To obtain the silver-salts , the solution of the calcium-salt was precipitated by silver-nitrate and the washed precipitate dried at 1200 , and the silver determiried by igniting .
Fourid From hexylhydride .
Calculated for From octvl From diamyl .
C4IL{ A201 1 IT .
hydride .
Ag G6506 per cent. 62-3 p. c. 64d1 p. c. 64 6 p. c. 64 7p .
c. The yellow oil which is formed besides succinic acid contains nitrogen ; it is not volatile , and decomposes on heating ; caustic potash converts it into a red resinous substance .
It dissolves very easily in faming nitric acid ; on boiling this solution for some time the oil is converted irnto a white solid , which separates as crystalline powder on addition of water , and which crystallizes from alcohol in large flat needles .
I did not obtain sufficient of this compound for a satisfactory analysis ; also the quantity of succinic acid obtained is always very small in comparison to the amount of hydrocarbon used , which is to the greatest part oxidized to water and carbonic dioxide .
The distillate obtained after the oxidation contains , besides unaltered hydrocarbon and diluted nitric acid , also a small quanitity of fatty acids and of nitriles .
I have only examiined those which were derived from diamvl .
The liquiid was neutralized with sodium-carbonate , the diamyl separated and distilled ; after the hydrocarbon had passed over , the thermometer rose , and between 230 ?
-235 ?
a small quantity of a yellowish liquid passed over , which had the characteristic smell of the nitriles of the fatty acids .
On heating it with an alcoholic potash solution , ammonia was giveni off .
I tried to convert the potassium-salt thus obtained into the silver-salt , but obtained the latter only in small quantity and in an impure state , so that I could not analyze it .
The boiling-point of the nitrile agrees with that calculated for caprinitrile , C , o E,0 N. The solutioni of the sodium-salts was evaporated , and the residue distilled with a small quantity of nitric acid ; the acid distillate , on which oily drops swam , smelt of valerianic acid .
It was neutralized with ammnonia , and precipitated with silver-nitrate in three fractions .
( 1 ) Fraction contained 45 27 per cent. of silver .
( 2 ) , , 46 84 ( 3 ) 4.9 50 , Silver-cenanthylate contains 45-57 per cent. Agn , and silver-valerate 51-67 per cent. Ag .
The fatty acids , which were formed by oxidizing diamyl with nitric acid , consisted therefore of cenanthylic , valerianic , and no doubt also caproic acids .
I have further examined the products which are obtained by oxidizing the amyl acohol derived from petroleuLm .
As I have shown in a former communication* , the amyl compounds obtained from fusel-oil appear to be identical with those from petroleuim , as they have the same specific gravity and the same boiling-points ; the only difference which I found is that the boiling-point of amylhydride is about 40 highter than that derived fiora the fermentation alcohol .
The whole quantity of amyl alcohol which I had prepared from petroleum was only 3 grammes .
As oxidizing mixture I used a soluition of two parts of potassiuim biehromate in ten parts of water , to which was added three parts of sulphblric acid .
The alcohol was added to the cold liquid , and the reactioni moderated by suirrouniding the flask with cold water .
As soon as the reaction was finished the liquid was distilled , and the acid distillate , which smelt strongly of valerianic acid , neutralized with sodium-carbonate ; a small quantity of a neutral oil remained undissolved , which was removed , and the solution of the sodium-salt evaporated to dryness .
The residue was distilled with sulphuric acid , and from the distillate , on which an oily acid swam , a silver-salt prepared .
( 1 ) 0'3190 of this salt gave 0 1830 Ag .
( 2 ) 0-2408 of salt of another preparation gave 0 1358 Ag .
Salt No. 1 contained , therefore , 57 3 per cent. Ag , and No. 2 56-4 per cent. Ag .
This composition differs very much from silver-valerate , which containis 51.67 per cent. Ag ; yet the characteristic odour of the distillate leaves no doubt that a considerable quantity of valerianic acid was present , which must have been mixed with a lower member of the fatty acid series .
I soon found that acetic acid was present ; for on distilling the residue in , the retort and collecting separately the last dlistillate , a liquid was obtained which smelt of acetic acid .
It was converted into the silver-salt .
0 2340 of this salt gave 0-1485 Ag , or contained 63-46 per cent. Ag , whilst the calculated percentage is 64 67 per cent. Peddler has found that active amyl alcohol yields on oxidation-t , besides valerianic acid , a considerable quiantity of acetic acid* , the same products , therefore , as amyl alcohol from petroleum .
The neutral oil above mentioned was treated again with the oxidizing mixture , which had hardly any action on it ill the cold ; it was therefore dried and distilled .
The greatest portion boiled betweeni 97`-12020 , and distilled on rectification nearly wholly between 95 ?
-100 .
It had a pleasant fruity smell , and formed with hydrogen sodium-sulplhite a crystallilne compournd .
The analysis yielded the following results:0'3080 substance gave 0 7740 CO2 and 0,3220 12 0 .
a ... * .
- ... .
685o H. .
=1 .
96 O ... ... ... ... ws 19 99 100 0 The only simple formula which can be calculated from these numbers is C5 11O 0 , although the quantity of carboin is I per cenit .
short ; probably it contained a little amylacetate ; the odour of it certainly resembled that of this ether , and , as the folloving calculated compositions of C , H110 0 and of amylacetate show , such1 an admixture would lower the percenltage of carbon .
Calculated composition of C.o Hlo ?
* C5 11l 0 C ... ... ... 69-77 64 61 ... ... ... . .
1163 1 077 O.1860 24 62 100 00 100 00 How this compound , which without doubt was an aceton , has beeil formed I am at a loss to understand .
The very small quiantity of liquid boiling above 1200 consisted chiefly of amylvalerate ; at least it had the odour of this ether .
I should have wished to be able to give more definite results , but the preparation of amyl alcohol from petroleum is difficult and requires a very lonig time .
But as the oxidation-products of the different amyl alcohols are being at present investigated by differeint chemlists , I thought it would not be without interest to publish these incomplete results .

