On the Reflection and Deconmposition of Light at the separating Surfaces of Media of the same and of different refractive Powers .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. L. QS E. Read February 12 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 187 .
] When white light is incident upon a surface which separates two different media , the portion that is reflected should , according to the Newtonian theory of light , preserve its whiteness , provided the thickness of either of the media exceed the eighty millionth of an inch .
But since the dispersive powers of bodies are different , it must follow as a necessary consequence , that reflected light can never under any circumstances retain perfect whiteness , although the modification it experiences is not of sufficient amount to become sensible in ordinary experiments .
The author during his investigations of the laws of polarization for light reflected at the separating surface of different media , had occasion to enclose oil of cassia between two prisms of flint glass , and was surprised to find that the light reflected was of a blue colour .
The fact was new , but might be readily explained upon the principle that although the refractive density of oil of cassia greatly exceeds that of flint glass for the mean rays , yet the action 3S67 of these two bodies is nearly the same on the less refrangible rays : hence it may happen that a larger proportion of the former than of the latter is transmitted , and the pencil formed by reflexion will then appear blue .
The partial decomposition thus effected in the incident rays will be the same in kind , though it may vary in degree , at different angles of incidence , and cannot therefore give rise to any variation of colour in the reflected rays , although they may differ in intensity according to the obliquity of the incidence .
By using different kinds of glass , and of interposed fluids , the author obtained various analogous results , different rays of the spectrum being separated according to the prevalence , in each particular case , of one or other of the opposite actions exerted upon them by the solid and the fluid medium .
The author directed his attention more particularly to those conditions in which the nearest approach could be made to a perfect equilibrium of all the forces which affect the incident rays .
The solids which he employed in his experiments were two prisms of plate glass , of which the sections were right-angled isosceles triangles , and differing but very slightly in their refractive indices .
The fluids were castor oil and balsam of copivi , the former having a less , and the latter a greater refractive power than the glass prisms ; a thin film of either fluid being interposed between them .
With castor oil , and within the limit of total reflexion , the reflected light is yellow ; on gradually diminishing the angle of incidence , it passes in succession through all the tints of three orders of colours , of which the details are presented in a table exhibiting those which correspond to different angles of incidence .
When the incident light is homogeneous , no colours are seen , but the reflected pencils have their maxima and minima of intensity ; like the rays of thin plates , or the fringes of inflected light formed by homogeneous rays .
When copivi balsam is employed as the fluid medium , the same orders of colours are obtained by reflexion , but at smaller angles of incidence than with castor oil .
Having ascertained that at a temperature of about 940 the mean refractive index of the balsam became equal to that of the glass prisms , the author examined the influence of a gradual elevation of temperature upon the colours of the reflected pencils ; and found that no particular change marked the instant when the refractive densities of the two media became equal ; although when the temperature was increased considerably , the tints entirely disappeared .
Analogous results were obtained by employing prisms of obsidian instead of glass .
The author next engaged in more extensive series of experiments with various fluids interposed between glass prisms ; and states their results in the form of a table , showing more especially the periods of colours produced at the separating surfaces by the different kinds of oils .
He considers the facts which are there detailed , as establishing the existence of reflecting forces at the confines of media of the same refracting power ; and as proving , first , that the reflective and refractive forces in these media do not follow the same law : and , secondly , that the force which produces reflexion , varies according to a different law in different bodies .
The reflective forces of the solid and the fluid may be conceived to decrease in various ways : first , they may respectively extend to different distances from the reflecting surface , and decrease according to the same law .
Secondly , they may extend to different distances , and vary according to a different law ; or , lastly , they may extend to the same distance , and vary according to different laws .
Whether the refracting forces follow the same law in solids and in fluids , it is extremely difficult to determine by direct experiment ; but if we assume the mutual dependence of the refracting and reflecting forces , then the experiments recorded in this paper will establish a variation in the law of the refracting forces of different media .
These facts may be explained on the undulatory theory of light , by supposing that the density or elasticity of the ether varies near the surface of different bodies , an hypothesis which has already afforded an explanation of the loss of part of an undulation in several of the phenomena of interference ; the part lost being , according to Dr. Young , a variable fraction , depending on the nature of the contiguous media .
The phenomena of periodical colours at the confines of media of the same or of different refractive powers , are evidently dependent on the law of interference , although it may be difficult to point out the precise mode in which they are produced .
In combinations where there is much uncompensated refraction , their production is influenced by certain changes , such as the formation of a thin and invisible film on the surface of the solid , the nature and origin of which the author endeavours to investigate , but which he acknowledges he has hitherto been unable to discover .
That some unrecognised physical principle is the cause of all these phenomena will , he thinks , appear still more probable from a paper which he intends to present to the Society , on the production of the very same periods of colour , at similar angles of incidence , by the surfaces of metals and transparent solids , when acting singly upon light .
He also announces , as the subjects of two other communications , the results of researches in which he has been long engaged ; first , on the action of light on the surfaces of bodies as an universal mineralogical character , with the description of a lithoscope for discriminating minerals ; and secondly , on the influence of the doubly refracting forces upon the ordinary forces , which reflect and polarize light at the surfaces of bodies .

