On new Properties of Heat , as exhibited in its Propagation along Plates of Glass .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Lond. and Edinb .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read January 11,1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 46 .
] In a paper communicated to the Society in May 1814 , Dr. Brewster observed that glass , when raised to a high temperature , had the property of depolarizing light , and in this respect resembled crystallized substances ; but he did not at that time succeed in tracing a resemblance in other points , which he left for future investigation .
On resuming this inquiry in the present paper , the subject is divided into two parts ; in the former of which he describes the transient effects exhibited during the propagation of heat along plates of glass , whether received from adjacent bodies or communicated to them ; and in the latter he describes the permanent optical properties produced in glass by being suddenly and partially cooled when red hot .
The phenomena here noticed depend on the total or partial depolarization of light , previously polarized by reflection at a certain angle from a surface of black glass .
It is well known that when a ray of light thus polarized in the plane of primitive incidence is incident upon a second surface of black glass at the same specific angle , if the second plane of incidence be at right angles to the former , then no part of that ray will be reflected by the second surface ; and an eye rightly placed for witnessing the effects , will perceive in the exact specific direction a central spot of absolute blackness , surrounded also by a dark space of some extent , from which less or more of light is reflected , in proportion to the increase of distance from the central line of no reflection .
The light , however , which has thus been polarized , may be wholly , or in part , depolarized by the interposition of many crystallized bodies , the degree of depolarization being dependent on the more or less exact position of a certain neutral axis or plane of their crystalline texture with the plane of primitive polarization .
When these planes are perfectly coincident , the light remains polarized in that plane , and a black line appears in that direction ; but adjacent to it , on each side , are seen a series of colours , which depend partly upon their proximity to the central black line , and partly upon the thickness of the depolarizing body , the succession of colours being exactly the same as those observed by Newton in thin plates , but variously modified in their forms , according to the nature of the crystalline substance interposed , and according to the position of its axis .
The optical effects of heated glass , as now observed by Dr. Brewster , are precisely of the same kind , and are now found to depend not upon the simple circumstance of temperature of the entire plate , as he originally supposed , but upon the progressive differences of temperature in different parts of the plate , arising from contact or proximity to a plate of hot or cold iron , or from the cooling power of the surrounding atmosphere .
And in the same manner as the several tints of colour produced by crystallized bodies , have been shown by M. Biot to depend on a series of thicknesses proportional to those in Newton 's scale for thin plates ; so with respect to heated glass , Dr. Brewster observes , that a corresponding arithmetical progression is observable for the same tints , whether the thicknesses compared be those of single plates , or the aggregate thickness of several combined .
From these phenomena , Dr. Brewster infers the production of what he calls a crystalline structure in the glass during its contact with heated iron ; but observing the existence of an opposite structure in the middle of the glass , and again the same structure at its remote extremity apparently beyond the reach of sensible heat , he says there is nothing analogous but in the perplexing phenomena of magnetic and electric polarity .
In the prosecution of these experiments , the author varies indefinitely the forms and dimensions of his plates of glass , and with them the forms of the fringes produced ; but it would be next to impossible to convey any correct idea of the various appearances without assistance from drawings ; neither indeed could Dr. Brewster himself have observed the phenomena with sufficient precision in their fluctuating state as arising from the temporary communication of heat , had he not found means to render the same properties permanent , by a method which forms the subject of the second section of this paper .
When a plate of glass is brought to a full red heat , and is then cooled by placing its edge on a bar of cold iron , the same fringes of colour are developed during cooling as by placing cold glass upon hot iron ; and in this case the glass retains the property given to it even after it is completely cold .
The author delineates various configurations of colours produced by plates of different forms thus cooled .
Among many others , a parallelogram of glass exhibits an inscribed parallelogram , with lines from each angle to the angles of the plate ; and when the plate has been divided longitudinally by a diamond , each of the portions again exhibits an inscribed parallelogram , just as if the parts had been separately heated ; and in this respect they present a property analogous to that of a divided magnet , each part of which has opposite poles as the entire bar .
A circular plate of glass , cooled with its centre resting on a piece of cold iron , or a cylindrical rod of glass cooled in the open air , when examined by polarized light in the direction of its axis , each present the same appearance of a black cross through their centre , and concentric fringes parallel to their circumference .
Since it is obvious that in these cases of rapid cooling , as well as those of rapidly heating , there must be progressive variations of density of the glass proceeding in a direction from the source of heat or of cold , and since the phenomena exhibited by many crystallized bodies , when examined in the direction of their axis , are precisely similar , Dr. Brewster infers that there exists in these crystallized bodies also a corresponding variation of density , proceeding toward their axes , which will afford an easy explanation of the fringes they exhibit .

