XXI .
On the structure of the crystalline lens infishes and quadrupeds , as ascertained by its action on polarised light .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R. S. Lond. and Edin .
In a Letter addressed to the Rzght Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R. S. Read June ao , 8 16 .
DEAR SIR , THERE is , perhaps , no subject in natural history which has excited so much attention , as the structure and functions of the eyes of animals ; and there is certainly none which has so ill repaid the anxiety and labour with which it has been investigated .
The physiologist was naturally led to study the mechanism of an organ through which man receives the noblest of all his enjoyments ; and the natural philosopher , considering it as the work of infinite intelligence , ardently anticipated the improvement of optical instruments from the imitation of this perfect model .
It is discouraging however , to estimate the real amount of the labours of the one , and to perceive how little advantage has been derived from them by the other .
The most prominent functions of the eye are still very imperfectly understood , and the improvement of the telescope has been retarded , rather than advanced , by the pursuit of a false analogy .
I have , therefore , some satisfaction in being able to throw additional light upon a subject of such difficult investigation , and so generally interesting both from its optical and physiological relations .
Having found that the doubly refracting structure could be communicated to glass and other bodies , by giving them a variable density either through the agency of heat or mechanical pressure , I was led to conclude , that the same structure would be found in the crystalline lens of fishes and other animals , which was known , by direct experiment , to increase in density towards the centre .
I had formerly examined the action of the crystalline upon polarised light , without obtaining any new result ; but I now placed such reliance on the truth of the general principle , that I resumed the subject with the utmost confidence of success .
Upon exposing to a polarised ray the crystalline lens of a large cod , included in its capsule , I could not perceive , as happened in my early experiments , any very distinct indications of a peculiar action .
I plunged it , however , in Canada balsam contained in a hollow parallelopiped of glass , and was surprised to observe a regular optical figure varying its shape during the revolution of the crystalline .
I now turned the spherical crystalline , till the diameter which corresponded to the axis of the eye , or the line joining the poles to which the fibres converge , was parallel to the polarised ray , and I observed the appearance shown in Fig. i. ( P1 .
XII .
) consisting of twelve luminous sectors , i , 9 , 3 , , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , io , ii , i2 , separated from each other by a black cross , and by two dark concentric circles .
The interior sectors , 1 , 2 , 7 , 8 , were small and exhibited a white tint of the first order , increasing in brilliancy towards the centre .
The middle sectors 3 , 4 , 9 , 1o , which are very large , are separated from the interior ones , by a broad dark circle , and display a white tint of the same intensity .
The outer sectors $ , 6 , ii , 12 , are extremely faint , and are seen with considerable difficulty in this position of the lens .
If the crystalline is now turned round , so that its axis , which corresponds to the axis of vision , may always be parallel to the polarised ray , the same appearances will be seen without the slightest variation .
But if this axis is inclined to the polarised ray in the direction i , a , the sectors i , 2 , will diminish , and 7 , 8 , will increase in size , and an additional white spot will appear at the centre as in Fig. 9 , till by increasing the inclination , the sectors i , 2 , and the white spot will completely disappear , leaving the sectors 7 , 8 , much enlarged and of a bluish white tint .
If the inclination is in the direction 7 , 8 , the sectors i , 2 , will increase , and 7 , 8 , will diminish in the same manner .
By transmitting the polarised light through other two faces of the glass parallelopiped , so as to traverse the crystalline in a line perpendicular to its axis , the optical figure presented new appearances .
When the axis of the lens was either parallel or perpendicular to the plane of primitive polarisation , which happened four times in the course of a revolution , it exhibited the form shown in Fig. 3 .
The tints 1 , , 7 , 8 , were now reduced to a pale blue of the first order , and the black cross was very ill defined at the centre .
The middle sectors g , 4 , 9 , 1o , were a little reduced in size , while the exterior ones 5 , 6 , ii , 1s , had experienced a very sensible augmentation .
At intermediate positions of the crystalline , when its axis was inclined 4,5 ?
, 1g5 ?
, 22 ?
, and 315 ?
to the plane of primitive polarisation , the optical figure assumed the appearance shown in Fig. 4 , where the two sectors 7 , 8 , are greatly enlarged , and the other two i , s , have wholly , or almost wholly , disappeared .
I now removed the capsule of the lens , so as to let out the semifluid matter which it enclosed , and having rubbed off the very soft exterior coat , I immersed the diminished sphere in Canada balsam , but I could never observe the exterior sectors , 5 , 6 , i , 2 , all the other appearances being exhibited as before .
I next removed the middle coats of the crystalline , and replacing the nucleus , which was now reduced to oneeighth of an inch in diameter , in the glass parallelopiped , I observed the central sectors i , 2 , 7 , 8 , without any of the middle or exterior ones .
By pressing the nucleus between two plates of glass , or by allowing it to indurate gradually , the depolarised tints ascended in the scale of colours , as in the case of animal jellies .
If we now take a plate of sulphate of lime which polarises a blue of the second order , and combine it with the crystalline lens , so that its axis may be parallel to the line 6 , to , 2 , 1,9,5 , the white tints 9 , to , will ascend to a green of the second order , while those at i , 2 , 5 , 6 , will descend to an orange red of the first order .
In like manner , if the axis of the plate of sulphate of lime is parallel to the line 11 , 3 , 7 , 8 , 4 , i , the tints 3,4 , will become green , and7 , 8 , 1 , 12 , an orange red .
Hence , it follows , that the nucleus i , 2 , 7 , 8 , and the exterior coat , 5 , 6 , ii , i2 , have the same structure as one class of doubly refracting crystals , while the middle coats 3 , 4 , 9 , 10 , have the structure of the other class .
In order to compare these different structures with those of glass crystallized by heat and by pressure , * I took a polished sphere of crown glass , and , having brought it to a red heat , I cooled it by rolling it quickly in every direction over a smooth surface .
When it was immersed in Canada balsam , ' See Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 46 , i56 , and exposed to polarised light , it had the appearance shown in Fig. 5 , in whatever position it was held , the highest tint being an orange yellow of the first order .
By examining these sectors with sulphate of lime , I found that the glass had the same structure as the middle coats of the crystalline .
In like manner , it appeared that the sectors , exhibited by pressing a convex lens upon a flat piece of glass , were produced by a structure the same as that of the central nucleus of the crystalline .
The structure of the crystalline lens , in short , is similar to that of a plate of glass that gives the unusual fringes* bent into a circular shape .
Hence it follows , that the central nucleus and the external coat are in a state of dilatation , while the intermediate coats are in a state of contraction , and that these opposite states are not dependent upon each other as in crystallized glass .
The phenomena which have now been described are visible also in the crystalline of the haddock .
They appear likewise in that of sheep and oxen , but there is here only one series of luminous sectors corresponding with the intermediate set in the crystalline of fishes .
The human crystalline will no doubt display similar properties , but in an inferior degree .
The cornea both of fishes and quadrupeds , and also the human cornea , have an analogous structure ; in which the optical axes of all the particles are directed to its centre .
Its structure is the same as that of the internal nucleus , and it produces an effect upon polarised light similar to what is shown in Fig. 6 .
The sclerotic coat of fishes has the property of depolarising .
light in separate spots like the diamond , or a mass of crushed t See Phil. Trans. x8i6 , p. 65 , 66 .
isinglass ; but it derives this property from a bluish white membrane which covers the outside of it , for when this is removed , it loses the doubly refracting structure .
If the sclerotic coat is boiled , it is capable of receiving the structure of doubly refracting crystals by mechanical compression and dilatation .
In its natural state , it possesses the same property , but in an inferior degree .
The cornea is also capable of having its doubly refracting force increased by compression , or dilatation .
From these experiments the following conclusions may be deduced .
I. All the parts of the crystalline lens of fishes corresponding to the two dark concentric circles , exercise no action upon polarised light .
The outward spherical shell which acts upon light like one class of doubly refracting crystals , and also the solid nucleus which exercises a similar action , are in a state of mechanical dilatation , while the middle spherical shell which acts upon light like the other class of crystals , is in a state of mechanical contraction.* II .
The structure of the crystalline lens in fishes is not symmetrical , as has hitherto been supposed , consisting merely of a number of coats of different densities ; but it has a distinct relation to that diameter of the sphere which is the axis of vision. .
III .
The variations of density which produce the doubly refracting structure , are not related to the centre of the crysWhen the .
crystalline lens is examined by common light , there is an obvious appearance of a rapid change of density at the line which separates the middle and the exterior sectors .
This is probably the boundary of the fluid coat adjacent to the capsule .
talline , but to the diameter which forms the axis of vision .
For if the variation of density were related to the centre , the sphere would have a symmetrical structure , and like the glass ball already mentioned , would exhibit the same figure in every position .
IV .
It is highly probable , that this peculiar structure of the crystalline is necessary for correcting the spherical aberration .
I have the honour to be , &amp;c. D. BREWSTER .
l ' the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart , G. C , B. P. R. S , Edinburgh , May 20 , i816 .
it8 317

