On the Phenomena and Laws of Elliptic Polarization , as exhibited in the Action of Mletals upon Light .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. L. 8 E. Read April 22 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 287 .
] The action of metals upon light has always presented a remarkable , and hitherto inexplicable , anomaly in the science of polarization .
Malus , to whom this branch of optics owes its origin , had at first announced that metals exerted no polarizing influence on light ; but Dr. Brewster , by employing a different method of observation , ascertained that the light reflected from metallic surfaces was modified in such a manner as to exhibit , when transmitted through thin crystallized plates , the complementary colours of polarized light .
He afterwards discovered the curious property possessed by silver and gold , of dividing a polarized ray into complementary colours by successive reflexions .
M. Biot , to whom the author communicated this discovery , pursued the inquiry to which it led , and arrived at the same conclusions as to the mode in which this class of phenomena should be explained .
Subsequent researches , however , convinced the author that these generalizations had been too hastily formed ; and the study of Fresnel 's curious discoveries ' respecting circular polarization enabled him to advance still further in the inquiry , and he now presents to the Royal Society in this paper , a complete analysis of the singular phenomena exhibited in the action of metals upon light .
The first section of the paper treats of the action of metals upon common light .
A ray of common light reflected from a metallic surface when analysed by a rhomb of calcareous spar , exhibits a defalcation of light in one of the images , as if a portion of the light was polarized in the plane of reflexion .
This effect will be still more distinctly seen on examining the system of polarized rings formed round the axes of crystals by means of the light reflected from metals .
If the light had s.Jfered no modification by reflexion , or if the metal reflected in equal quantities the light polarized in opposite planes , the rings would not be visible at all , whereas it is found that they are easily visible in the light reflected from all metals .
They are most distinctly perceived at an incidence of about 74 ?
, and become more and more faint as the incidence succeeds or falls short of that angle .
They appear best defined in light reflected from galena , and from metallic lead , and with least distinctness in light reflected from silver and gold .
On examining the effect of successive reflexion of the same ray by metallic surfaces , the author found that the quantity of light which each polarizes in the plane of reflexion , increases with every reflexion , and that in several cases the whole incident pencil is completely polarized .
The action of metals upon polarized light forms the subject of the second section of this paper , in which he investigates the changes which polarized light undergoes , according as it is reflected at different angles of incidence , and in different azimuths of the plane of incidence with relation to the plane of primitive polarization .
The light experiences in these cases a physical change of a nature intermediate between that of completely polarized light , and light wholly unpolarized , neither does it possess the same characters as that which has passed through thin crystallized plates .
Its constitution is exceedingly analogous to light which is circularly polarized ; that is , which comports itself as if it revolved with a circular motion during its transmission through particular media .
But in the case of circular polarization , the ray has the same properties in all its sides , and the angles of reflexion at which it is restored to simple polarized light in different azimuths , are all equal , like the radii of a circle described round the ray .
In the case of metallic reflexions , the new phenomena discovered by Dr. Brewster may be designated by the term elliptic polarization , because the angles of reflexion at which this kind of light is restored to polarized light may be represented by the variable radius of an ellipse .
In circular polarization the restored ray has its plane of polarization always inclined 450 to the plane of the second system of reflexion .
In elliptic polarization , the inclination of the plane of the restored pencil is always less than 45 ? .
In the former case , this plane continues by successive reflexions to oscillate on each side of the plane of reflexion , with a never-varying amplitude , from + 450 to 450 ; while in the latter case the same plane oscillates with an amplitude continually diminishing till it is brought to zero in the plane of reflexion .
In steel , the polarization is highly elliptical , and the amplitude of the oscillations of the plane of restoration is quickly brought to zero ; but in silver , whose polarization approaches nearly to circular , the oscillations diminish very slowly in amplitude .
The peculiar character of elliptic polarization shows itself also in another manner in the variable position of the ellipses which regulate its angles of restoration upon steel .
In the third section of his paper , the author treats of the complementary colours produced by successive reflexion from the polished surfaces of metals .
He concludes by observing , that although we do not understand the nature of the forces by which metals reflect the two oppositely polarized pencils , yet we are certain they do not act exactly in the same manner as the second surfaces of transparent bodies , when producing total reflexion .
Setting out from a perpendicular incidence , the least refrangible rays begin to suffer the double reflexion sooner than the mean ray , and they sooner reach their maximum of elliptic polarization , thus exhibiting the inversion of the spectrum .
The theory of circular polarization , as given by Fresnel , will no doubt embrace the phenomena of elliptic polarization ; and when the nature of metallic action shall be more thoroughly examined , we may expect to be able to trace the phenomena under consideration to their true source .

