On the Laws of Polarization and Double Refraction in regularly Crystallized Bodies .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S..Lond .
and Edin .
In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir JosephBanks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. lRead January 15 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 199 .
] In the different inquiries which the author has already laid before this Society , his attention was often directed to the phenomena of regular crystals ; but he only lately succeeded in reducing under a general principle all those complex appearances which result from the combined action of more than one axis of double refraction .
In this paper Dr. Brewster gives a general view of the present state of our knowledge respecting the double refraction and polarization of light , and afterwards traces the steps which led him to the discovery of the general law .
He began his researches by the examination of 165 crystals , in 145 of which he discovered the property of double refraction .
In 80 he was able to ascertain whether they had one or more axes ; and by examining the tints which they exhibited at various angular distances from the axes , whence the forces emanate , he has been led to a general principle , which embraces all the phenomena and extends to the most complex as well as to the most simple development of the polarizing forces .
This general principle , says Dr. Brewster , is in no respect an empirical expression of the facts which it represents , nor is it supported by any empirical data .
Founded on the principles of mechanics , it is a law rigorously physical , by which we are enabled to calculate all the tints of the coloured rings , and all the phenomena of double refraction , with as much accuracy as we can compute the motions of the heavenly bodies .
The faculty of depolarization , explained by the author in a former paper , has been considered as sufficient indication of two separate images ; and upon this principle it has been stated that all crystals are doubly refractive whose primitive form is neither the cube nor the regular octohedron : but this is incorrect ; for some of these crystals possess a doubly refracting structure in a high degree .
Admitting the statement , however , it could not have been used as a rule for determining whether a crystal refracts doubly or singly ; for it is more difficult to detect the primitive form than to examine the optical properties .
Tungstate of lime , for instance , would have been reckoned a crystal without double refraction , when Haiiy believed its primitive form to be the cube , although it is highly doubly refractive .
In examining the nature and properties of the coloured rings produced by certain crystals , the author found that the squares of the diameters of the rings were , in every case , proportional to the numbers which represent the corresponding tints in Newton 's table .
When a plate of beryl was combined with a plate of calcareous spar , the system of rings was the same as would have been produced by two plates of beryl , one of which was the plate employed , and the other a plate which gave rings of the same size as the plate of calcareous spar .
But when we combine a system of rings produced by a crystal of zircon , with the system produced by calcareous spar , a different effect is produced ; and the system , instead of being diminished , is increased , and is equal to that which would have been produced by a thin plate of calcareous spar , whose thickness is equal to the difference of the thicknesses of the plate of calcareous spar employed , and the plate of calcareous spar that would give rings of the same size as those given by the zircon alone .
In the section " ' on crystals with two or more axes of polarization , " Dr. Brewster observes that , although M. Biot considered mica as the only mineral possessing the compound structure indicating two axes , he had found .
the same structure in topaz , nitre , tartrate of potash and soda , sulphate of potash , acetate of lead , and mother-of-pearl , as early as 1813 ; and he points out the means of deducing the number of axes in crystals from their primitive forms .
Dr. Brewster expresses the general law of the tints for crystals with one or more axes in the following manner .
The tint produced at any point of the sphere by the joint action of two axes is equal to the diagonal of a parallelogram whose sides represent the tints , and whose angle is double the angle formed by the directions in which the forces are exerted .
The fourth and fifth sections of this paper relate to the resolution and combination of polarizing forces , and the reduction of all crystals to those with two or more axes ; and to the polarizing structure of crystals that have the cube , the regular octohedron , and the rhomboidal dodecahedron for their primitive form .
The sixth and concluding section describes the artificial imitation of all the classes of doubly refracting crystals , by means of plates of glass ; in which the author demonstrates that the polarizing structure depends entirely upon the external form of the plate , and on the mode of aggregation of its particles .
When its form is circular , it has only one axis of polarization , which is attractive if the density diminishes towards the centre , and repulsive if it increases towards the centre ; but when its form is rectangular or elliptical , it then lias two axes of polarization , the strongest of which appears to be attractive , and the weakest repulsive .
The elementary spheroid of crystals with double axes may be supposed , says the author , to be formed by elliptical plates bent into spheroidal strata ; and the spheroid itself may be constructed by spheroidal strata of glass , it then exhibiting all the complicated phenomena produced by the simultaneous actions of two unequal axes .

