Experiments on the Depolarization of Light as exhibited by various mineral , animal , and vegetable Bodies , with a Reference of the Phenomena to the general Principles of Polarization .
ByDavid Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Edin .
and F.S.A. Edin .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read December 15 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 29 .
] When a ray of light has been so modified by reflection or refraction that in certain planes it is not divided into two parts by a prism of Iceland spar , that ray is said to be polarized ; but it may again , by several means , be rendered divisible , and is then said to be depolarized .
The object of the author , in this letter , is to comprise experiments on the depolarizing properties of a great variety of substances at the same time , and thence to deduce the general principles on which the various degrees or modes in which they exhibit this property depend .
Dr. Brewster has already , in a former communication , described the general phenomena of depolarization by mica , calcareous spar , topaz , and other regularly crystallized bodies , which have two neutral axes at right angles to each other , and two depolarizing axes also at right angles to each other , but making angles of 450 with each of the neutral axes .
Of the bodies now enumerated by the author , some have no polarizing or depolarizing properties , as rock salt , fluor spar , and spinelle ruby .
Out of seven specimens of diamond , four did not depolarize ; one depolarized about one fifth of the light , one about one half , and one nearly all the light in every position .
The next class of bodies subjected to experiment by the author , are vegetable and animal substances , from which he expects to deduce important conclusions .
Gum arabic depolarizes light in every position , unless in extremely thin chips .
Cherry gum also depolarizes light , with some appearance of a neutral axis .
Caoutchouc has the same property ; and though it loses it when fused by heat , it recovers the same power gradually in the course of a few weeks .
White wax , melted between two plates of glass , depolarizes in every position .
Bees ' wax has the same property , as may be exhibited by enclosing a portion of a cell of a honey-comb between layers of Canada balsam .
Manna , camphor , and balsam of Tolu were tried with the same results .
Various fibrous vegetable substances have also the property of depolarizing , but have neutral axes in the direction of their fibres .
Adipocire from various sources , spermaceti , and soups of all sorts , depolarize in every position .
Various kinds of hair , wool , feather , and silk depolarize , but have neutral axes in the direction of their length , and at right angles to it .
Human cuticle , human nail , and various kinds of horn ; the cornea of the eye of a man , cow , or fish ; a piece of bladder , isinglass , or glue , depolarize in all positions .
Certain other animal substances , which are distinctly fibrous in one direction , exhibit neutral axes in that direction , and at right angles to it , though they depolarize in other directions .
Acetate of lead , confusedly crystallized between two plates of glass , depolarizes in all positions .
Plates of ice have in general the same effect , though some exhibit neutral axes .
Oil of mace being a soft solid , opake from confused crystallization , depolarizes also in all positions ; but it also exhibits , through a very thin margin , a peculiarity not observed in any of the preceding experiments .
When the flame of a candle is viewed through it , the flame appears surrounded by a halo ; but if the light be polarized before it is transmitted through the oil of mace , then the flame has four wings or luminous radiations , at right angles to each other ; and accordingly if two pencils of light be received at the same time by transmission through Iceland spar , then there are two such images , with their four wings transversely situated , so that the rays of one image correspond in position with the blank spaces of the other .
A slice of tortoiseshell , which also depolarizes in every position , exhibits also , by the polarized light of a candle , faint luminous rays , similar to those seen by oil of mace .
The author next classes these bodies according to the various degrees in which they more or less perfectly depolarize , and more or less perfectly possess neutral axes , in which depolarization does not take place .
The simplest case of depolarization is that effected by a thin plate of Iceland spar , or other regularly crystallized body , the principal section of which is not in the plane of polarization , or at right angles to it , and consequently occasions the polarized ray to be subdivided into two others transversely polarized , according to the original observation of Huygens .
Hence if other bodies , as hair , wool , silk , &amp;c. have neutral axes or planes , in which a transmitted ray retains its polarization , while it is depolarized in other positions , this affords optical evidence of the regularity of their internal texture ; and though they cannot be called doubly refracting crystals , yet the author conceives that they form two images , which are coincident , but differently polarized , and accordingly that these bodies should be called doubly polarizing crystals .
Other bodies , on the contrary , like the confusedly crystallized acetate of lead , having axes in all directions , present no neutral axes , but depolarize in every direction ; while others , according to tha degree of their crystalline texture , have the property of depolarizing a greater or less proportion of the incident light , or , according to the degree of regularity of that texture , may exhibit some appearance of neutral axes .
With regard to oil of mace , Dr. Brewster observes , that since the continuous halo which surrounds the flame of a candle seen through it , is divided , by refraction through a prism of Iceland spar , into two sets of luminous radiations surrounding the two flames seen through it , having the luminous rays of the one corresponding in position to the vacant spaces of the other , he infers that the halo itself , in fact , consists of eight luminous octants alternately polarized in a different manner ; and observes , that if we knew in what way the halo is formed , there would probably be no difficulty in explaining these reinarkable phenomena .

