In order to observe the manner in which the cavities disappeared , I suspended one of the drops by a wire , and viewed it with a telescopic microscope when exposed to a strong heat .
Soon after the drop became red hot , the cavities gradually contracted , and at last vanished , the centre of the cavity being the part that was last filled up .
The drop had begun to melt at its smaller extremity , but the lines represented in fig. , were still visible , the heat probably not having been sufficiently intense to affect its superficial structure .
As the specific gravity of the crystallized drop is nearly the same as that of the annealed drop , the cavities must be produced by the contraction which the internal part experiences in cooling , for the sudden induration of the outer layer prevents the contraction from taking place in any other way .
The manner , too , in which the cavities disappear , is a complete proof that they contain no air , and hence we may consider their magnitude , which increases with the size of the drop , as a measure of the contraction which the glass undergoes in its transition from the temperature at which it melts , to the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere.* I am informed by Dr. HOPE , that he has frequently obtained unannealed drops of crown glass , in which there were no vacuities , and that they all burst spontaneously in the course of a few months .
As there is at present no crown glass manufactory in this part of Scotland , I have not been able to make any experiments with drops of this kind ; but there is every reason to believe that they would exhibit the same optical properties , as those which are formed of flint and bottle glass ; and that the contraction of the internal parts , in consequence of which the vacuities are produced , is not necessary to that arrangement of particles upon which these properties depend .
In the flint glass drops , such as ABC , fig. i , there is sometimes only one vacuity , in the thick part at E , and as the slender extremity C is perfectly cold before the vacuity E is formed , and when the glass round E is red hot , it is obvious that the part C has suffered no contraction , and is in the same state as the crown glass drops obtained by Dr. HOPE .
But the extremity C has a more perfect structure than the bulb AB , as it possesses distinct neutral axes : hence we may infer that the crown glass drops , without vacuities , will exhibit neutral axes in every part of their length ; that their structure is more uniform than that of flint and bottle glass drops ; and that the difference between the specific gravity of the drop , and that of the annealed crown glass from which it is made , will afford a correct measure of the contraction which the glass experiences , in passing , by a gentle gradation of temperature , from the fluid to the solid state.* The contraction of the flint glass drops , as computed from the magnitude of the cavities , must always err in defect ; but the maximum result obtained from a considerable number of drops may be regarded as a tolerably correct measure of the diminution of density .
* For this purpose , those drops should be employed in which the cavities are numerous , and scattered over every part of their length .
The largest drops have generally this character , and I have one of these in my possession , in which there are no fewer than seven cavities .
A considerable degree of difficulty is experienced in procuring unannealed drops of flint glass .
Owing , I presume , to the softness of this kind of glass , the greater number of the drops burst as soon as they are cooled , and from some pots of glass I have been able to procure only four drops out of twenty-four that were plunged into the water .
One of these burst in my hand some hours after it was made , without any part of the tail having been previously broken , and another burst on the following day when lying on the table exposed to no change of temperature .
The best method of obtaining the drops entire , is to watch the moment when the red heat disappears in the centre of the bulb , and to remove it instantly from the water .
As the minutest fragments of all crystallized bodies have the same action upon light , as the crystals of which they formed a part , I expected a similar property in the fragments of the shattered drops .
One of these , which was about the sixtieth of an inch thick , did , not possess the property of depolarisation , and with more than twelve fragments of different thicknesses , below the thirtieth of an inch , I obtained a similar result .
A fragment , however , of a crown glass tear , which had burst after being dropped into the water , and which was about two-tenths of an inch thick , depolarised light in every position , but did not exhibit any coloured rings by polarised light .
I have not been able to make a complete series of experiments on the effects of heat upon crystallized bodies , but it will appear from the following experiment that they are not likely to conduct us to new results .
I heated to a great degree a fine crystal of spinelle ruby , which has not the property of double refraction , but it did not produce the least change upon a polarised ray .
The crystal was ij of an inch thick ; and a piece of crown glass of the same thickness , and brought to the same temperature , depolarised a considerable portion of light .
The effects of heat , as indicated by the preceding experiments , are , perhaps , too imperfectly developed to authorise us to draw those important conclusions , to which they seem so well calculated to conduct us .
One of these , however , is so palpable , and so clearly deducible from the phenomena , that it must already have suggested itself , namely , the production of a new species of crystallization by the agency of heat alone .
When light is transmitted perpendicularly through a plate of glass , the glass exercises no more action upon it , than if it were a mass of water .
When the glass , however , is heated the particles not only expand , but assume a new arrangement , till at a certain temperature the crystallization is complete .
As the temperature diminishes , the particles approach one another , and gradually recover their former arrangement .
The crystallization which is thus produced in drops of melted glass , is rendered permanent by the sudden immersion of the drop in water , which arrests the particles in that particular position that constitutes the crystalline state of the body .
Hence it follows that the particles of glass , when separated to a certain distance by the expansive energy of heat , assume a crystalline arrangement ; and , unless they are fixed in this state , by a sudden diminution of temperature , the crystallization is gradually destroyed by the approximation of the particles which takes place during the operation of slow cooling .
During my experiments on depolarisation , which I shall soon have the honour of submitting to your notice , I discovered another species of crystallization , which is the effect of time alone , and which is produced by the slow action of corpuscular forces .
This kind of crystallization appears , in general , to accompany the consolidation of many vegetable and animal products , and will probably be found to have had an extensive influence in those vast arrangements which must have attended the formation of our globe .
I have the honour to be , Dear Sir , your most obedient humble servant , DAVID BREWSTER , To the Right Hon. Sir JOSEPa BANKS , Bart. K. B. P. R.S. 8 PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. Additional observations on the optical properties and structure of heated glass and unannealed glass drops .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F. R. S. Edin .
and F. S. A. Edin .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read November 1o , 1814 .
DEAR SIR , Edinburgh , April 8 , 1814 .
Na former paper on the optical properties of heated glass and unannealed glass drops , I have briefly described the leading phenomena which they exhibit in their action upon polarised light .
These experiments I have frequently repeated with the same results , and I have the satisfaction also of stating , that as soon as they were known in France , they were repeated and verified by M. BIOT of the National Institute , to whose active genius this branch of optics owes great obligations .
Having ascertained that glass melted and suddenly cooled , possessed all the optical properties of crystallized bodies , I was anxious to determine if it exhibited any other marks of MDcccxV .
B a crystalline structure .
Upon examining the bulb of an unannealed drop AB , P1 .
I. , fig. i , by holding it between the eye and a sheet of white paper , I observed a number of lines converging to the vertex a , as represented in fig. o. This structure was more or less apparent in every bulb which I examined , but never appeared in annealed drops .
It exhibited itself even on the surface , and seemed to be owing to an imperfect crystalline form , yet it was not marked with sufficient distinctness to entitle me to consider it as the effect of crystallization .
In one specimen , however , where the bulb AB remained unshattered , while all the rest of the drop was burst in pieces , the lines diverging from a were most distinctly marked , and the bulb was actually cleft in the direction of these lines , so as to produce a real dislocation at the surface of the drop .
We may therefore consider the drop as possessing that crystalline structure which gives cleavages in the direction of lines diverging from its apex .
By examining the fragments of the drop after it is burst , another cleavage is distinctly perceptible : it is parallel to the outer surface , and produces a concentric structure like that of an onion .
This cleavage also shows itself in the splinters which are detached from the surface of the drop when it is ground upon freestone .
A third cleavage is visible in the direction of lines inclined to the axis of the drop , as represented in fig. 3 ; but it is not so distinct as the two first .
As it appeared probable that the glass drops possessed a less degree of density than if they had been annealed , I attempted to ascertain this point by measuring their specific gravities in these two different states .
The unannealed drops , however , had always one or more vacuities , such as E , F , .
3 fig. l , so that I was able to obtain only approximate results by estimating the magnitude of these cavities .
The following specific gravities were measured by my friend Mr. JARDINE , with his usual correctness .
Unannealed flint glass drop , fig. i , 3.20405 Annealed flint glass from the same pot 3.2763 In order to correct the first of these measures , I moulded a piece of bees ' wax into the size and form of the cavities E , F , fig. i , by examining them under a fluid of the same refractive power as the glass .
I then formed the two pieces of wax into a sphere , and thus ascertained , with tolerable accuracy , the weight of a quantity of water of the same magnitude as the cavities .
By this means I obtained the following measure , Corrected specific gravity of the unannealed drop 3.264 , a result differing so little from that of the annealed glass , that we may consider them as having nearly the same density .
With the view of obtaining some farther insight into the structure of the crystallized drop , I brought the one , represented in fig. i , nearly to a red heat .
Its shape suffered no change at this temperature , and the vacuities E , F , still remained ; but it had now lost the faculty of depolarisation , and the particles had therefore assumed a new arrangement .
By increasing the temperature , the cavities E , F , disappeared : the lower side of the drop , upon which it rested , was inlented by the bottom of the crucible ; but it had in no other respect lost its external shape , the appearance of the cleavage in fig. 2 remaining unaltered .
In this state Mr. JARDINE measured the specific gravity of the drop , and found it to be 3.278 , which is almost exactly the same as that of the annealed drop .
B3

