On the Anatomical and Optical Structure of the Cfystalline Lenses of Animals .
Continued from a former Paper ( Phil. Trans. I83 3 , p. 332 .
) .
BAy Sir DAVID BREWSTER , K.H. LL. D. F.R.S. 4-c .
&amp;c. Received November 26 , 1835 , -Read January 21 , 1836 .
ยง 2 .
On the Anatomical and Optical Structure of the Crystalline Lenses of Animals , particularly those of the Hare and the Salmon .
IN describing the various structures which exist in the crystalline lenses of animals , I shall proceed from the most simple to the most complex combination of fibres .
In the paper which I have already submitted to the Society , I took the lens of the cod as the type of the first or simplest structure , in which the fibres , like the meridians of a globe , converge to two opposite points of a spheroidal or lenticular solid ; and I shall now proceed to describe the second or next simplest structure , as exemplified in the lenses of the salmon and the hare .
This structure is shown in Plate IV .
fig. 1 , where AA is the anterior and BB the posterior hemisphere of the spheroidal lens of the salmon .
A lens thus constituted is said to have two septa at each pole , A and B ( fig. 2 .
) , namely , the septa A b , A c , and B d , B e , in different points of which all the fibres have their origin and termination .
One of the fibres , for example , which has its origin in A , passes over N , and terminates in d ; while the other passes from A to 0 , and terminates in e. In like manner , the fibre which begins at b passes over P , and ends in B ; while the fibre which begins at c passes over M , and terminates in B. The different parts of these four fibres lie in one plane , like the meridians of a globe .
All the other fibres , which have their origin between A and B , have their termination between d and B ; and all those which have their origin between A and c have their termination between e and B. All these fibres , or every fibre in each lamina exceptjfour , have their different parts lying in different planes , or form curves of contrary flexure .
In order to understand this structure , and appreciate its beauty , it is necessary to draw the fibres upon a globular surface .
A perspective view of such a globe is given in fig. 3 , where Ab is one of the anterior septa , and Bc one of the posterior ones .
The two curves which go from the poles A and B to the ends of the septa c. b , are ellipses , while all the rest are curves of contrary flexure .
The length of the septa A b , A c , &amp;c. varies in different fishes ; and when they are very short , as they must necessarily be in small lenses , we are apt to mistake the structure which they indicate for that of a difftsed polarity round the two extremities of the axis of the lens .
When such an ambiguity , however , presents itself , we mnst observe carefully if the diffusion is more elongated in one direction than another .
If it is not , and especially if there is seen a small circular dimple or depression at the poles when we follow the light reflected from the surface of the lens , there can be no doubt that the fibres converge to two opposite poles , like the meridians of a globe .
But if the diffused polarity be of an oval form , and if the greater axis of the oval on one side of the lens be perpendicular to the same axis on the other side , we may then safely infer that the fibres are related , as in the lens of the salmon , to two septa at each extremity of the axis of vision .
When these methods fail , the ambiguity may sometimes be removed by boiling the lenses , and observing the manner in which they crack at the poles .
From a too hasty generalization of a small number of facts , LEEUwENHOEK InainI tained that all fishes and birds have two short septa ; and M. SATTIG * has advanced the same opinion in reference to fishes , and committed the additional mistake of making every part of the fibres lie in the same plane .
Dr. THOMAS YOUNG maintains that there are no septa in the lenses either of birds or fishest ; and in pursuing the chimzera of a muscular lens , he not only renounced discoveries of his own , after LEEUWENHOEK , but adopted grave errors which have no foundation whatever either in observation or analogy .
It is a very remarkable circumstance , that the hare and the rabbit should be the only quadrupeds whose lenses have two septa , like that of the salmon .
This fact was observed by LEEUWvENHOEKI and also by SATTIG , who remarks that the septa are larger in the lenses of these animals than in those of fishes .
The fibres of the lenses of the hare and the rabbit are curves of contrary flexure , like those of the salmon , and they are distinctly toothed , though the teeth are much smaller than those of the salmon and the cod , of which I have given a representation in a former paper .
Although I have stated that the hare and the rabbit are the only quadrupeds whose lenses are known to have the same structure as that of the salmon , yet there is a rare marsupial quadruped , the Perameles nasuta of GEOFFROY , whose lens will probably be found to have two septa on each of its surfaces .
Professor GRANT was so good as to send me a single lens of this curious animal ; but as one of its faces was much injured , I was able only to discover the two septa on the side of the lens which was uninjured .
It is highly probable that the fibres will have a similar arrangement on the other side of the lens ; but until this is actually determined , it is possible that * Lentis Crystallinve Structura Fibrosa .
Preside Reil Defendit SAMUEL GODOFREDIUS SATTIG SILESIUS .
Halae , 1794 .
It is not surprising that the author of this thesis should have followed LEEUWENHOEK in this mistake , as he seems to have examined the lenses only of the carp and the perch , in which the two septa are most distinctly developed .
t Elements of Natural Philosophy , vol. ii .
p. 599 .
col .
1 .
and Plate XII .
fig. 100 .
the Per ameles nasu~ta may have its lens formed according to another class of structures which will afterwards be described .
The fibres of the lens of this animal are extremely small , and the teeth upon them , though very minute , are distinctly seen with a high magnifying power .
The structure indicated by two septa is perceived very distinctly in the lens of the Cobra Capella and the Lacerta Gecko , and indistinctly in that of the Stellio Gecko and the Frog .
The lenses of the Cobra Capella and the Lacerta Gecko are nearly spherical ; and the laminge of the lens of the Stelijo Gecko are composed of a fibrous tissues , and not of fibres united by teeth .
In the following Table I have given the namies of the different animals whose lenses have the structure shown in fig. 1 .
QUADRUPEDS .
Hare .
Rabbit .
Perameles nasuta ( one side ) .
REPTILES .
Cobra Capella .
Lacerta Gecko .
Steliio Gecko ( probably ) , Frog ( probably ) Alligator .
FISHES .
Salmon .
Tench .
Hickory Chad .
Dolphin .
Carp .
Cavala ( Georgia ) .
Shark .
Perch .
Stingarie .
Porpoise .
Sturgeon .
Skip-jack .
Skate .
Gudgeon .
Chad .
Thornback .
Cat-fish .
Black-fish ( Georgia ) .
Boneto .
Par. Fish from Singapore .
Dog-fish .
Red Trout .
Sheep-head .
Sword-fish .
River Trout , common .
1 .
Hare.-I have examined the lenses both of the common hare and the blue mountain hare , which have the same structure .
In observing their action upon polarized light , I find that they depolarize two series of luminous sectors , the inner sectors having the negative structure like calcareous spar , and the outer sectors the positive structure like zircon , In order to perceive the inner sectors , the lens must be taken out of the eye with great care , and subjected to no pressure , and the polarized light must be transmitted through its axis .
2 .
Rabbit.-The lens of the rabbit resembles that of the hare in its general properties .
The cornea of a rabbit depolarized faint sectors of light , and its polarizing structure was negative .
3 .
Perameles nasuta.-When the lens of this animal was taken omt of the spirits which preserved it , and the outer coat removed , its fibres were crossed perpendicularly by irregular and slightly serrated lines , much more distinct than the fibres .
As- ; these lines are not now visible in the indurated lens , I cannot even form a conjecture respecting their origin .
4 .
Stellio Gecko and Frog.-The lenses of these animals require to be reiexainined .
5 .
Salmon.-The length of the septa in the lens of the salmon is less than those in the hare and rabbit , and the teeth upon the fibres are extremely distinct .
The lens depolarizes three series of luminous sectors , the inner and outer series being negative and the intermediate series positive* .
The polarizing structure of the cornea was negative , and it depolarized very high tints at its junction with the sclerotic coat .
The structure of the sclerotic coat is very remarkable .
In the eye which I examined , the thickness of the sclerotic was about the fifteenth of an inch , and with a sharp knife it could be cut like a piece of cheese .
It had a milky transparency like some opals .
When a slice with parallel faces , nearly perpendicular to the surface , was exposed to polarized light , it exhibited the system of biaxal rectilinear fringest , exactly like those in a plate of glass heated by boiling water or oil , and in the act of rapid cooling .
The same structure exists in the sclerotic coat of the Cod .
6 .
Dolphin.-The lens of the dolphin is decidedly an oblate spheroid , the axis of which is that of vision .
In an indurated lens the axis of the spheroid is 0254 of an inch , and the equatorial diameter 0307 .
The teeth of the fibres are small and irregular , like those of quadrupeds .
7 .
Shark.-The lenses of the common and blue-eyed shark have the same structure .
The sclerotic coat has the remarkable property ( when cut in the manner already described in the case of the salmon ) of depolarizing light like a plate of bent glass+ hult , what is very curious , the concave side of the sclerotic has the same action upon light as the convex side of the bent glass .
8 .
Alligator.-The lens of the alligator is nearly spherical : the teeth of the fibres , as in the dolphin , are shorter than those in fishes .
9 .
Skate.-The lens of this fish depolarizes three series of luminous sectors , but the inner series is not so distinct and near the axis as those of the cod .
The inner and outer series are negative , and the Intermediate series positive .
The horny sclerotic of the skate has the very same polarizing structure as that of the salmon .
The teeth of the fibres of the lens are exceedingly small .
10 .
Thornback.-The fibres are very delicate , and their teeth small but distinct .
The lens depolarizes luminous sectors ; but from the imperfection of the lens I could not observe their chiaracter .
11 .
Boneto.-The lens is an oblate spheroidl , whose axis is that of vision .
The teeth of the fibres are very distinctl ? .
12 .
Swordfish.-The dia'meter of the lens of this fish which I examined was I 10th of an inch .
The teeth of the fibres were so distinct that three circles of the secondary colours produced by them were distinctly seen,11 .
Tench.-This fish has a very small eye , and a small lens .
Owing to the faintness of the polarized tint I have observed only one series of luminous sectors , whose character is positive .
14 .
Perch.-The lens of this fish , like that of the tench , exhibits only one set of luminous sectors by polarized light , and their character is also positive .
15 .
G-udgeon.-'The teeth of the fibres are very distinct .
I have observed only one series of luminous sectors , which are positive .
16 .
Cat-fish.-This is a poisonous fish from Georgia .
The teeth of the fibres are very fine .
17 .
Red Trout.-Its lens was nearly spherical , and 0244 of an inch in diameter .
It distinctly depolarized three series of luminous sectors , the inner and outer ones being negative , and the intermediate one positive .
The teeth of the fibres are very distinct .
18 .
Hickory Chad.-This fish is from Georgia .
The fibres are distinctly seen .
19 .
Cavala.--This fish is from Georgia .
On one side of the lens there are two short septa .
The secondary colours produced by the teeth of the fibres are very distinct .
20 .
Stingarte.-This is a poisonous fish from Georgia .
The lens is of an oblong form when viewed in the direction of the axis of vision .
The two septa on one side are very long .
21 .
Skip-jack.-The teeth of the fibres are short , like those of quadrupeds .
22 .
Black-fkh from Georgia.-The fibres of its lens are large , and the colours which they produce very finely seen near the septa .
23 .
Sheep-headfrom Georgia.-The fibres of its lens are unusually large* .
24 .
Fish from Singapore.--Mr .
GEORGE SWINTON sent me a number of the eyes of this fish , but the name has been lost .
Its lens has the form of an oblate spheroid , the axis of which is the axis of vision .
This axis is 060 of an inch , and the equatorial diameter 0'70 .
The secondary colours produced by the teeth are finely displayed .
ยง 3 .
On the Anatomical and Optical Structure of the Crystalline Lenses of Animals , particularly those of the Lion , Tiger , Horse , Ox , and other Quadrupeds .
In the two preceding sections I have described the two simplest combinations of fibres which characterize the structure of the crystalline lens in animals .
The lenses of birds possess thefirst or simplest structure ; the lenses of fishes in general exhibit either thefirst or the second structure ; and we shall now show that the lenses of the Mammalia in general , with the exception of the hare and the rabbit , and other quadrupeds of peculiar habits , are characterized by a third and a more complex strneture , in which three septa diverge from each pole of the lens at angles of 1200 , the septa of the posterior surface bisecting the angles formed by the septa of the anterior surface .
This beautiful structure is shown in Plate V. figg .
1 .
and 2 ; fig. 1 .
representing the anterior , and fig. 2 .
the posterior , surface of the lens , which in quadrupeds is a real lens or lenticular solid , the curvature of the posterior surface having a shorter radius than that of the anterior surface .
The progress of the fibres round the edges of the lens in their passage from the one surface to the other is shown in fig. 3 , where the lens is supposed to be transparent , the dark continuous lines representing the three septa and the fibres of the anterior surface , and the dotted lines the three septa and the fibres of the posterior surface .
From this representation it will be seen that there are three fibres having their origin in the anterior pole , and terminating at the extremities of the posterior septa ; and other three having their origin in the posterior pole , and terminating in the extremities of the anterior septa , which have their parts all lying in one plane , while every other fibre of the lens forms a curve of contrary flexuie , in order to carry it to its proper termination in the opposite septum .
Hence it follows , that with the exception of the six fibres originating in the poles , the parts of all the other fibres which constitute the margin or rim of the lens are not parallel to its axis .
The arrangement of fibres shown in figg .
1 .
and 2 .
may frequently be seen , particularly in the lenses of old animals when they are large , by examining them in their entire and transparent state within their capsule .
In some cases I have seen them distinctly by looking down upon the surface of the lens ; but when they are visible in this way they may be seen to most advantage by looking through the surfaces with a small magnifier , when the lens is placed in a fluid of nearly the same refractive power .
In tracing the fibres to their termination in three septa , I employed the optical method already described in a preceding paper ; but in general the superficial coToured images are not so distinct as those in the lenses of fishes , though , like them , they may be transferred to wax , and are like the colours of mother-of-pearl .
The fibres of the lenses of quadrupeds gradually diminish in size from the equator or margin of the lens , where they are a umaximum , to their termination in the anterior and posterior septa .
They are united together by small teeth , like those of fishes ; but generally speaking the teeth are smaller and less distinctly pronounced ; and in , some lenses I have found it extremely difficult to exhibit them with the finest microscopes .
As the teeth can only be seen in the indurated state of the fibres , it is probable that their form may be in a great measure altered or obliterated by the process of induration , especially when we consider that the lenses of quadrupeds are very much softer than those of fishes , and that the evaporation of the aqueous portion must produce a greater change upon the indurated albumen when it is most abundant .
The existence of three septa was observed by LEEVUWENHOEK , and afterwards by %ATTIG , in the lenses of the ox , the horse , the shepn thpe goat , the fox , the ( log , and / u7X t the AjNIDQIXXVI . ?
1/ i V/ p. o. r_ ~~~~~~~~~ __ ___ / i~Di , 0 10 .
1[~~~~~~~~~~~*j ' ts~~~~t~~~t-X'C~~~~~~yt~~~g@.g.~~~7 at -1Q44../ ' .
&gt; &lt; :.'C.7 ; jTf~jj\N 7./ ti/ /S &gt; / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k t the cat ; but LEEUWENHOEK committed the strange mistake of supposing that each coat or lamina of the lens consists of circumvolutions of a single fibre , whereas each fibre has a distinct termination in the septum at both its extremities .
Dr. THOMAS YOUNG seems to have been occupied with the examination of the crystalline lens of the ox in 1792 or 1793 , previous to the publication of SArrTIG'S thesis ; and in his olservations on Vision , read before the Royal Society on the 30th of May , 1793 , he has given a drawing and description of the result of his observations* .
This description is exactly the same as that previously given by LEsEUWENHOEK , excepting that Dr. YOUNG erroneously maintains that each of the coats of the lens ' consists of fibres intermixedc with a gelatinous substance , " which we presume he considered to be necessary for cementing the fibres into a compact body .
In Dr. YOUNG'S subsequent and more elaborate paper on the Mechanism of the Eyet , he renounces as erroneous the description which he had given of the arrangement of the fibres in the crystalline of the ox ; and he substitutes , in place of his former correct drawing , another , which is altogether visionary .
" In man , " says he , " and in the most common quadrupeds , the structure of the lens is nearly sirnikir The number of the radiations is of little consequence ; but I find that , sometimes at least , in the human crystalline there are ten on each side , not three , as I once , perhaps from a too hasty generalization , concluded .
Those who find any difficulty in discovering the fibres must have a sight very ill adapted to microscopical researches .
" Notwithstanding the assertion in this passage that the structure of the lens in man and the most common quadrupeds is nearly similar , yet fig. 93 , in which he represents " the order of the fibres of the humanb crystalline , " is essentially different from fig. 95 in which he shows the " 1 ramifications ( of the fibres ) from the margin of the crystalline lens " in quadrupeds .
In the first of these figures there are no ramifications of the fibres from the margin of the lens whereas in the second there are no fewer than six , placed without any symmetrical relation either to the septa or to one another .
The following Table contains the names of the different animals in whose lenses I have found the structure shown in Plate V. figg .
1 , 2 , and 3 .
These animals are all quadrupeds , with the exception of the anonymous fish , caught near the Azores , to which I shall have occasion again to refert .
Lion .
Ox. Goat .
Tiger .
Cow..Sow .
Horse .
Sheep .
Deer , Fallow .
Deer , Roe .
Dog .
Baboon .
Indian .
Cat. Monkey , Douroucouli .
Moose .
Otter .
Black Spider .
Buffalo Wild .
Rat .
Entellus .
Nilgao , India .
Mouse .
Green .
Llama .
Opossum .
Lesser White-nosed .
Puma .
Squirrel .
Jacketed .
Cheetah .
Lemur , Black .
Vicugua .
Antelope , Melampus .
Red-fronted .
Capybara .
A-Pygmy .
Nocturnal .
Chinchilla .
Fox , Common .
Coati , Brown .
Ichneurnon .
Black , from America .
Suricate .
Fish caught near the Azores , 1 .
Lion.--The posterior surface of the lens is the most convex .
The fibres which compose the lens are exceedingly distinct , and the teeth smaller and sharper than those of fishes .
2 .
Tiger.-The fibres and the teeth which unite them are very distinct , and like those of the lion .
In a lens preserved in spirits , and deprived of its external lamina , the lamina shone with all the incommunicable colours of mother-of-pearl .
When the lens was dried these colours disappeared .
3 .
Horse.-When the lens of the horse is thrown for a second or two into boiling water , and is allowed to dry slowly , it splits in such a manner as to show the septa and the general'structure of the lens very satisfactorily .
The fibres are well seen and the teeth distinct and small like those of the lion and the tiger .
4 .
Llama , Pumaa Capybara , &amp;c. -The fibres and teeth are exceedingly distinct in the lenses of these animals , and equally or less so in all the other animals in the Table .
G5 .
Cat. In order to observe if the fibrous structure was the sample in the young animal , I took the eyes of three kittens , six in number , about eighteen hours after birth and what was very remarkable , I found that the lenses in all the six were white and opake , with a perfectly transparent rim .
The three septa were distinctly seen in all the lenses .
It will be interesting to ascertain , if in all animals which are born blind , the crystalline is opake at their birth , and gradually becomes transparent from the margin to the centre during the period in which the eye is closed against the admission of light .
6 .
Chinchilla.-The lens of the chinchilla seems to fill the whole ball , and the cornea is exceedingly large , forming almost a hemisphere .
7 .
Suricate.-The cornea of the suricate is nearly of the same size as that of the chinchilla .
8 .
Unknown Fish from the Azores.--.The lens of this fish , which was sent to me without a name by Mrs. GREEN of Cumberland Island , is in every way remarkable .
It is the only lens of a fish which has the structure belonging to quadrupeds ; and it is equally peculiar in having the form of a prolate spheroid , the axis of which coincides with that of the eye .
The length of the axis is 0*327 , and its equatorial diameter 0*273 of an inch .
In some quadrupeds I have observed an irregularity in the septa , which may have arisen either from an original malconformation of the lens , or from some .
accidenta injury .
In the lens of a horse I observed a spurious septum , one of the three being double .
The same fact will be more particularly noticed in describing the lens of the elephant , in which it is more common .
ยง 4 .
On the Anatomical and Optical Struchtre of the Crystalline Lenses of ' Aiman ; part'cularly those of the Whale , the Seal , the Bear , and the Elephant .
From the lenses of quadrupeds in which the fibres are related to three septa , I shall now proceed to describe the fourth and last class of symmetrical structures , in which the fibres are related to four septa , placed at right angles to one another .
This conibination of fibres is of rare occurrence , and I have found it only in the lenses of the whale , the seal , and the bear .
The character of this structure will be understood from Plate V. figg .
I and 2 , where fig. I represents the anterior surface , and fig. 2 the posterior surface , of the lens .
The septa on the posterior-surface are inclined 45 ?
to those on the anterior surface , so that if the lens were transparent , the septa when seen at the same time would appear like the eight radii of an octagon , inclined 450 to one another .
In this structure there are eight fibres , all the parts of which lie in one plane , passing through the axis of the lens ; namely , four extending from the extremities of the fonr anterior septa and terminating in the posterior pole , and other four extending fro i the extremities of thefour posterior septa and terminating in the anterior pole .
All the other fibres of the lens , except these eight , are curves of contrary flexure , which necessarily change their direction in passing from one septum in the one face toanother septum in the other inclined 450 to it .
The structure which I have now described is exhibited in the crystalline lenses of the whale and the seal .
I found it distinctly developed in the lens of a whale , fortysix feet long , caught by Captain Ross in his first voyage in the Arctic regions , and also in a specimen of the great seal , or Phoca barbata , which Lieutenant ROBERTSON of the Isabella brought home from Baffin 's Bay in the same year .
, In the lenses of other whales and seals , however , I have found a different structure , which is represented in Plate VI .
figg .
3 and 4 .
This combination of fibres differs from that in figg .
1 and 2 , in having two centres of divergence in place of one i an .
each surface of the lens ; but if we conceive these two points to coincide , the two structures become identical .
In both , the principal septa are at right angles to eac ( other on the same face , and inclined 450 to those on the opposite face ; so that the general character of the two structures is the same .
In the lenses of one .
of the bears killed by Captain Ross during his first voyage , I found the structure shown in figg .
2 and 3 &amp; The distance between the centres of 2 divergence was greater on one side of the lens than on the other , in both lenses ; and in one it was so small as to show very nearly the structure in figg .
I and 2 .
In the lenses of other whales , one of which was thirty-five feet long , I found the structure shown in figg .
1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 , in which there arefour radiations of fibres , or vortices , as I believe LEEUWENHOEK calls them , on each surface of the lens ; but I have found in one lens a spurious structure , in which there areftve* radiations on one face and three on the other face of the lens .
When the lens of the whale has ben preserved in spirits , the coats have often a brilliant pearly lustre , a phenomenon which I have sen with equal beauty in the lenses of some quadrupeds , especially in that of the tiger .
The fibres of the lens of the whale are extremely distinct , and the teeth upon them , which are visible with high powels , resemble those in the fibres of quadrupeds .
The cry stalline lens of the elephant possesss many remarkable peculiarities .
The followit g are the dimensions of the eyeball of an elephant , which Mr. GEORGE , SWINON was so kind as to send me from Bengal .
Eyeball .
Inches .
Longest diameter ... ... 1*82 Shortest diameter ... ... . .
1lO Core a. Longest diameter ... .
P35 Shortest diameter ... ... 0 92 Crystalline Lens .
Longest diameter .
X ... . .
0700 Shortest diameter.ee.e .
0-627 Thickness e. .
, ... .
0 400 Ratio of the two diameters , I to 11 125 .
In another eye the dimensions of the lens were as follow : Crystalline Lens .
Inch .
Longest diameter ... ... .
01784 Shortest diameter..* 0100 Thickness ... ... , .
0 450 Ratio of the two diameters , 1 to 1 116 .
lEt wENTHoEK says that there are five sep in the lens of the whale ; but I have not his paper beside one in order t ascertain whether he means by this five radii inclined 720 to each other , or five radiations such as I Uhave found in the spurio3us rutate here mentioned .
Hence it is obvious that the crystalline lens of the elephant differs from that Of mo10St other animals , in being of an elliptical form , the horizontal diameter of the ellipse being the longest .
When the lens has been preserved in spirits , and the outer coats are removed , it resembles a piece of the finest amber .
In this condition , when dry , it does not crack , like other lenses , but exfoliates in thin scales , which give it the appearance of a flat pearl .
When these scales are rubbed off it resumes its appearance of amber , and when well dried , after two or three exfoliations , it becomes as permanent in its appearance and colour as that substance , and almost as hard and durable .
This peculiar property of the elephant 's lens arises from the peculiar structure of its coats or laminae .
These coats are not , properly speaking , composed of fibres , but are of a fibrous tissue , the elementary fibres of which are not united mechanically by teeth , but by some other process , probably that of agglutination , which I cannot discover by the finest microscopes which I possess * .
Owing to this structure of the laminae , the superficial colours are not displayed , as in other lenses , and it is very difficult to trace the elementary fibres into the septa , to which they are related .
I have succeeded , however , in determining that there are six radiations of fibres and three centres of divergence on each surface of the lens .
This structure is shown in Plate VI .
figg .
5 and 6 , in which there are three septa diverging from the poles of the lens , as in quadrupeds , and from the extremity of each two additional septa , which are the real septa , to which the fibrous radiations are principally related .
The three central septa are inclined 1200 to each other , and the two additional septa seem te be inclined at an angle of 60 ?
to each of the central ones ; but these measures are of course only rude estimates of the inclination of lines , which in animal and vegetable organizations , and even in those of the mineral world , approximate only to the mathematical type of their characteristic structure .
In the combination of fibres shown in figg .
5 and 6 , there are twelve fibres whose parts all lie in the same plane , all the rest forming curves of contrary flexure .
In some lenses of the elephant , I have found the three septa which meet in the poles of the lens exceedingly small , and approaching to evanescence ; and I have no doubt that , as happens in the case of four septa , these three central septa will in some lenses be wanting ; so that the other six septa will diverge from the poles at angles of 600 , like the radii of a hexagon .
Such a lens will bear the same relation to the structure shown in figg .
5 and 6 as the structure in figg .
1 and 2 bears to that in figg .
3 and 4 .
On the Structure of the Crystalline Lens of the Turtle and other animals in which ; the Fibres are differently combined in the anterior and posterior Surfaces .
In the various structures of the crystalline lens which have been described in pre.a ceding communications , the fibres are similarly arranged on both the surfaces of the lens , whether these two surfaces are similar , or have different degrees of convexity .
In this respect they resemble the artificial lenses of the optician , in which there is no other deviation from symmetry but in the curvature of their surfaces .
I have discovered , however , in the lens of the turtle , and in that of several fishes , a new combination of fibres , in which they are differently arranged in the anterior and posterior faces of the lens .
Ever rich in her forms and fertile in her resourcess , Nature thus presents to us in the crystalline lens foun singular properties , which the most skilful optician , even if he knew their design , is not likely ever to attempt to imitate .
But the study of these properties is not on this account the less interesting ; for though we may never be able to produce the same effect , either by similar or analogous means , yet we may be led to discover some other principle within the sphere of art by which the desired result may be obtained .
The four properties to which I refer are the ihicrease of density from the surface to the centre of the lens ; the alternations of negative and positive structures , as exhibited by the action of the lens on polarized light ; the arrangement of the fibres in reference to different numbers of septa ; and the defect of symmetry in this arrangement in the turtle and a few fishes .
The first of these properties , namely , a variation of density , is no doubt intended to correct spherical aberration , an effect which may be produced by the union of several spherical surfaces , or by hyperbolical or elliptical surfaces , or by surfaces of contrary flexure ; but the design of the other three properties has not even excited the ingenuity of conjecture , and will probably remain among the numerous problems which will exercise the sagacity of another age .
When I first observed a defect of symmetry in the arrangement of the fibres in the two halves of the lens of the turtle , I was extremely doubtful of the accuracy of my observations , and was therefore at peculiar pains to confirm the result by examining several lenses of the turtle .
In every lens , however , I found the deviation from symmetry was clearly indicated , though it did not possess the same character in every lens which came under my notice .
In the eye of the turtle which I first examined , the ball -was one inch in diameter , and the diameter of the lens only 0-200 of an inch .
Trle lens was nearly spherical ; and it had on its anterior face two septa , like the hare and the salmon , as shown in Plate VI .
fig. 1 ; but on its posterior face the fibres converged to a single pole , as shown in fig. 2 .
In this structure there are only four fibres in each lamina , which have their different parts lying in the same plane .
All the other fibres are concave towards a plane passing thr ouLgh the two anter ior septa , and of course convex towa ; , ds a plane at right angles to it , so that in this structure the fibres exhibit no contrariety of flexure , as in all the other lenses with septa at each pole .
The very same structure appeared in the other lens of the same turtle ; and was found likewise in both the lenses of another turtle , in which the diameter of the eyeball was 1-2 of an inch , and that of the lens 9,23 .
The fibres and their teeth are nearly the same in the turtle as in the lenses of quadrupeds , the teeth being very short , though perfectly distinct .
The structure represented by figg .
1 and 2 ( Plate VI .
) is possessed by the lenses of the following fishes : The Drune .
Crocer .
Grey Gurnard .
Bass .
Angel Fish .
Red Gurnard .
Whiting from Georgia .
Mullet ?
from Georgia .
1 .
The Drune , or Drum , from Georgia.-The lenses of this fish , along with those of the other fishes in the above table , except those of the gurnard , were sent to me with their common names by Mrs. GREEN of Cuinberlakd Island .
In both the lenses of the drune the different structures were very distinctly seen .
The fibres varied greatly in diameter as they approached the pole ; and though the secondary colours were not visible , yet the teeth of the fibres were beautiful and distinct .
2 .
The Bass from Georgia .
In this lens the double arrangement of the fibres is distinctly seen .
3 .
The Whiting from Georgia.-The same structure is clearly seen in both the lenses of this fish .
4 .
The Crocer from .
Georgia .
In both the lenses two short septa are seen in the anterior face , and a single pole in the posterior one .
The teeth of the fibres are very close , but distinct .
5 .
The Any &lt; gel Fish from Georgia .
In the lenses of this fish the two structures are very distinct , and also the teeth of the fibres .
6 .
Mullet from Georgia.--I am in some doubt respecting the existence of the double structure in the lens of this fish .
The observation which I made many years ago is thus recorded : " A sort of diffused polarity round two poles , as if there were two septa on each side , like those of the hare , or on one , like that of the turtle .
" As a diffused polarity was the only fact actually observed , I find that I have placed the muullet in the list of fishes without septa .
7 , 8 .
Red and Grey Gurnard .
In the lenses of both these fishes there were two short septa on one side and none on the other .
In examining the lens of a very large turtle , in which the eyeball was 14 of an inch in diameter , and that of the lens 0-25 of an inch , I found to my great surprise that there were three septa in front , as in quadrupeds , and four septa , or rather six , as in the seal .
The following is the account of the observation which I recorded at the time : " I saw distinctly the above septa on both sides when the lens was fresh and transparent , and plunged in oil of almnondsn and I confirmed this result by boiling the lens and removing the laminae .
The four septa require nice observation te ) be seen .
One of the three was inclined about 450 to one of thefour septa .
The other lens of this turtle has most distinctly four septa , but only two on the other side."9 A similar variation of structure has already been referred to as existing in the lenses of the horse and the whale .
Belleville by Kingusie , November 14th , 1835 .

