XII .
On the Polarisation of Light by oblique transmission through all Bodies , whether crystallized or uncrystallized .
By David Brewster , LL. D. .
RF .
S. Edin .
and F. S A. AEdin .
In a Letter addressed to Taylor Comb , Esq. Sec. R. S. Read January 27 , 1814 .
SIR , IN a letter on " the Affections of Light in its passage through crystallized Bodies , " which I had the honour of transmitting a few days ago to the Royal Society through Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , I alluded to a series of experiments which I had in view for the purpose of generalising the various phenomena which had been described .
At the very commencement of this enquiry I have been led to the important general result " that " light transmitted obliquely through all transparent bodies , " whether crystallized or uncrystallized , suffers polarisation " like one of the pencils formed by doubly refracing crystals , " and I hasten to communicate to you a brief sketch of the nature and consequences of this discovery .
In examining if any change was produced upon common light during its passage along the oblique depolarising axis of mica , I observed , in one position of the mineral , some appearances which indicated a partial poiarisation of the incident rays .
Upon turning the mica round , so as to preserve its obliquity to the incident pencil , the same phenomena presented themselves in every part of the revolution of the mica , and the quantity of polarised light was found to increase with the obliquity of its incidence .
I then substituted a plate of glass instead of the mica , and a similar result was obtained , though the quantity of polarised light was considerably less than in the first experiment .
By adding one plate of glass after another , the number of polarised rays was increased by the addition of each plate , and when the plates amounted tofifteen , the transmitted pencil was wholly polarised at an angle of about 70o 17 ' , and possessed all the properties of that species of light .
When a beam of light , polarised in this manner , is viewed through a piece of agate having its laminae parallel to the plane of refraction , the bright image of the object from which the ray proceeds will vanish , and the nebulous light will be a maximum ; but if either the plates of glass or the agate is turned round , so as to bring the lamine perpendicular to the plane of refraction , the nebulous light will vanish , and the bright image will recover its full lustre .
If we now substitute in place of the agate another series of plates , having their refracting surfaces parallel to those of the first series , and having the same inclination to the emergent ray as the first series had to the incident ray , the ray emerging from the first series will be transmitted through the second series , like ordinary light ; but if the refracting surfaces are perpendicular to each other , the ray emerging from the first series will refuse to penetrate the second series , and the object from which it proceeds will be invisible .
Having thus ascertained that the pencil of light polarised by transmission comported itself , in every respect , like one of the pencils formed by double refraction , my next object was to ascertain the law of the phenomena in relation to the number of plates and the angle of incidence at which the polarisation was effected .
For this purpose , I provided myself with forty-seven plates of crown glass , each of which was about three inches long and one broad , and having fbrmed them successively into parcels of 47 , 44 , 41 , 39 , &amp;c. down to eight plates , I measured by means of a theodolite the different angles at which a pencil of light was pularised when transmitted through these various parcels .
The results which were thus obtained , indicated at once a regular progression , and upon comparing the number of plates with the angles , it was obvious that the number of plates were always to one another , as the cotangents of the angles of incidence at which they polarised the transmitted light ; that is , if n , n ' represent the number of plates in any two parcels , and p , ; ' the angles at which the pencil was polarised , we have n n ' = cotang .
: cotang .
q/ and nx tang.p = n ' x tang .
/ ' .
Hence it follows that the number of plates in any parcel multiplied by the tangent of the angle , at which it polarises light , is a constant quantity .
From a great number of observations , made with a parcel of eighteen plates , I have found the constant quantity for crown glass to be 41.84 , so that we have tang .
p= 44 that is , divide the constant quantity by any given number of plates , and the quotient will be the natural tangent of the angle at which that number will polarise a pencil of light .
In this way I have constructed the following table , showing the various angles of polarisation from one plate up to 8,640 , ooo plates , the number by which light is polarised at an incidence of a single second .
Thefirst column contains the number of plates in each parcel ; the secotnd the angles of incidence at which each parcel polarises the transmitted light , calculated from the preceding formula , and extending to parcels below eight , and above forty-seven , which could not easily be made the subject of experiment ; the third column contains the experimental results from which the law was deduced ; and the fourth exhibits the differences between the calculated and observed angles .
The differences are all within the limits of error , and are singularly small when we consider the difficulty of observing the complete extinction of a luminous object , when the light by which it is formed has traversed a great number of plates .
When the angle of incidence exceeds the angles of polarisation contained in the table , the pencil of light still emerges in a polarised state .
TABLE showing the Angles at which Light is polarised by oblique Refraction , through different numbers of Plates .
tn-i ! .
- , _Jl _ t. l , ,. .
r Angles of Incidence Angles of Incidence Differences between Number of Plates at which Light is , at which Light is the calculated and in each Parcel .
polarised .
polarised .
observed Anglcs .
By Calculation .
By Experiment .
By Calculation .
' By Experiment .
_- , .
' IIIII ?
'123468 10 12 14 i6 i8 21 24 e7 29 31 33 35 39 41 44 47 100 200 500 1000 2000 4000 14000 8,64o0 , o00 88 ? ?
38 ' 87 16 85 54 84 32 81 50 79 11 76 33 74 0 71 30 69 4 6643 63 21 60 8 57 10 55 16 53 28 51 44 50 5 47 1 45 35 43 34 41 41 22 42 11 49 4 47 2 24 112 o 36 01 78 ? ?
521* 76 24 74 72 15 69 40 66 43 63 39 61 o 56 58 54 50 53 16 51 0 50 23 .
46 50 45 49 44 0 42 00 19'0 -o 5+ 0 36 +000 i8 +0 52 +O 12 O 26 -12 o 44o i8 + 11 14 +o 26 +0 19 + By means of the preceding table , we may readily determine the quantity of light that is polarised at any angle b , by a given number of plates n. Let m be the number of plates necessary to polarise the whole of the transmitted light , as found either from the table , or from the formula 4+.84 m tang .
qL the quantity of light transmitted through the plates n , then.n--=L.nL m the quantity of light required .
If cp = 43 33 ' ; L= 1n nL 2 and m= 44 , then we shall have -= 0.04545 the quantity of light polarised by two plates at an angle of 430 33g The law of polarisation being thus ascertained , my next object was to determine the law of the variations which the angles experienced by changing the refractive power of the plates .
From the difficulty of procuring ground plates of any substance of a high refractive power , I have made this experiment only in a rude manner with a parcel of twelve plates of green glass , which is nearly equal to flint glass in refractive power .
The result of this experiment indicated that as the refractive power increased , the transmitted light was polarised at a less angle of incidence ; but I cannot yet state the precise law till I have performed a series of experiments with a parcel of plates of flint glass which I am now preparing .
If a series of plates of glass is employed in the experiments on the elliptical coloured rings produced by topaz , either in polarising the incident rays in place of the reflecting plane , or in examining the rings in place of the agate and Iceland spar , the phenomena retain the same character ; but are more distinctand 2 !
24 brilliant .
The indistinctness occasioned by the interference of the two images in the case of Iceland spar , and of the bright ' and nebulous light in the case of the agate , is here in a great measure avoided .
The polarisation of light for this class of experiments may be effected in a very beautiful manner , by introducing into a glass trough about two-tenths of an inch wide , the fragmeertts of a globe of glass blown to the utmost thinness , or , the elementary films of which mica is composed .
I have produced the same effect by coats of grease , by thick plates of mica , * by folds of gold beaters ' skin , t and even by gold leaf itself .
The gold beaters ' skin is particularly fitted for this experiment when a strong light is used , as it disperses and equalises the light , and thus exhibits the rings to peculiar advantage .
Owing to the reflection which takes place at the surface of each plate , the image of a luminous object seen through a parcel of fifteen plates is encircled with a great number of faint images , which exhibit new phenomena .
When the plates are placed at a little distance from each other in a wooden trough ABDC , P1 .
VIII .
, fig. i , a luminous object at 0 will be seen by the eye at E in the direction EE ' , encircled with these faint images .
By turning the trough round D , in the direc* The following measures were taken with two thick pieces of mica .
Thickness .
Angle of Polarisation .
Mica 0.127 inch 63 o Ditto , another specimen 0.093 .
71 45 t The angle at which the complete polarisation of the transmitted light is effected may , in some instances , be employed as a good measure of the refractive power of the polarising plates or films .
In the case of gold beaters ' skin , and other substances which neither reflect nor refract light regularly , it is the only method which can be put in practice .
tion CAB , so as to increase the obliquity of the light radiating from 0 , the ; corner A will conceal the bright image at 0 , while the faint secondary images continue visible .
If we now examine these images with a prism of Iceland spar , they will be found to be polarised exactly like the bright image ; but upon increasing the obliquity of the incident rays still more , a nebulous light makes its appearance in the place of the faint images , and what is very singular , this nebulous lZght ispolarised in the opposite mannerfrom the brght image , and the bright image has the same relation to this nebulous light , as the bright image has to the neblous image of the agate , or as thefirst pencil has ta the second pencilformed by doubly refracting crystals .
When a beam of light from a candle is transmitted through a convex lens , and falls upon a series of plates at a considerable angle of incidence , a bright image A , and a row of faint images cd are distinctly visible , as in fig. 2 .
If we now view these images through a prism of Iceland spar , they will all be doubled ; but upon turning round the prism , the image A will vanish , and along with it the faint images of , and after another quarter of a revolution the image B will vanish , and along with it the faint images cd , the images A , and of having reappeared .
'When the angle of incidence , however , is greatly increased , the secondary images cd always , vanish along with their principal image , and efalong with their principal image B. The polarisation of the nebulous light , in an opposite manner from the bright image , first showed itself to me in a very curious phenomenon .
When the nebulous light and the bright image were both visible at the same time , and were transmitted through topaz , so as to form the elliptical colouredrings , I was surprised to observe the lower half of all the rings completely different from the upper half , like the sketch in fig. 3 , the half of the rings above the conjugate diameter of each was the very same as the first set described in my former paper , while the other half below the conjugate diameter contained the complementary rings , such as those which form the second set in the same paper .
When we polarise a beam of light by refraction , at the same angle at which it is polarised by reflection , we obtain very interesting results .
The number of plates necessary for this purpose is thirty , as represented by ABCD , fig. 4 .
If a ray of light RS is incident at S , so that the angle of incidence is 54 ?
St , then , according to the observations of MALUS , the reflected ray ST will be wholly polarised , while according to the preceding experiments , the transmitted beam OF will also be completely polarised .
The pencil OF , however , is polarised in the opposite manner to ST , and the tTwo pencils have the same relation to each other , as the two images formed by double refraction .
If we , therefore , suppose the thickness AC of the thirty plates diminished to such a degree , that the eye could receive both the pencils ST and OF , and if we examine these two images by a prism of Iceland spar , they will comport themselves in every respect , as ' if they had been produced by a doubly refracting crystal , vanishing and reappearing alternately in every quadrant of the circular motion of the spar .
As a portion of the transmitted beam SEF is polarised at its emergence from each plate , and as this portion possesses a polarisation opposite to that of the reflected beam ST , and falls upon the subjacent plates at an angle of 54 ? ?
35 ' , not one particle of it will suffer reflection , but each minute portion of light GgZX polarised by every successive plate will force its way through all the remainng plates , ad will reach the eye at E , without having lost a single ray by reflection , the light reflected at each surface being taken from the unpolarised portion of the transmitted light .
Hence it follows , that the light which penetrates through a parcel of plates is not a maximum when it falls with a perpendicular incidence ; that the principle employed by BOUGUER for computing the intensity of the light transmitted by several plates is completely erroneous ; and that the method adopted by the same distinguished philosopher for measuring the absorption of light is affected with a similar error.* The celebrated discovery made by MALUS , of the polarisation of light by oblique reflection , is perhaps the most important that optics has received since the discovery of the principle of the achromatic telescope ; but though it developed a new set of phenomena , analogous to those produced by doubly refracting crystals , yet as the polarisation of one of the images , at least , formed by these crystals , was effected by refraction , and not by reflection , it did not furnish us with any information respecting the manner in which they polarised the transmitted light .
The discovery , however , of the polarisation of light by oblique refraction , forms the connecting link between these two classes of facts , and holds out the prospect of obtaining a direct explanation of the leading phenomena of double refraction .
In estimating the quantity of light absorbed , B ovuGR ( Traite d'Optique sir la gradation de la Lunziere , p. 156-160 , ) compared the quantity transmitted by four pieces of glass with the quantity transmitted by one piece having the same thick .
ness with all the four .
The petcil of light was incident at an anlgle of 15 , and hence the 177th part of the light transmitted by each plate was polarised , and therefore mot altogether subject to the general law of reflection .
Z28 If two separate sets of polarising plates are placed before two luminous objects , in such a manner that their planes of refraction are perpendicular to each other , and that the rays are incident upon both parcels at the polarising angle belong ing to each , the observer will perceive two images which have all the properties of those formed by doubly refracting crystaTs ; and in so far as the polarisation of the two pencils is concerned , the two parcels of plates form an artficialpolarising crystal .
For if these two images are viewed through a prism of Iceland spar , they will be converted into four images , and by turning round either the spar , or the plates , two of the images will vanish and reappear in every quarter of a revolution .
From these observations , we are entitled to conclude , that the mystery of the polarisation of the two pencils formed by double refraction is completely removed by a reference to a more general principle , and that the formation of two images and the oblique refraction at a perpendicular incidence are the only parts of the problem which now require a solution .
From the view which has just been given of the nature and consequences of the polarisation of light by oblique refraction , you will readily see that the prosecution of these experiments will lead to results of still higher interest .
The establishment of a new law must at all times be considered as an important step in the progress of science , but when this law presides over a class of facts , all of which are unexplained , and many of which still remain to be discovered , it claims a higher regard both as an instrument of discovery , and as a principle for explaining new and analogous phenome.a .
If this paper shall meet with your approbation , and that of S29 the Royal Society , I shall communicate to you the results of a set of experiments on the Polarisation of Light by reflection .
In this paper I shall be able to show , by the most satisfactory details , that the principle discovered by MALUS is not , as has been supposed , a general law , but that it depends upon a circumstance which he appears to have completely overlooked , viz. the relation between the quantities of reflected and transmitted light when the pencil is incident at the polarising angle .
When light is polarised by reflection from water , the reflected light is only 40 part of the incident pencil , and in the case of glass it is only T.- , but when realgar , dammond , and chromate of lead are employed , the light reflected at the polarising angle is above o ^ , and therefore none of these bodies have the power of polarising the whole of the reflected pencil .
I have the honour to be , Sir , your most obedient humble servant , DAVID BREWSTER .
Edinburgh , Nov. 24 , 1813 , To TAYLOR COMBI , Esq. Sec. R. S !
13 0 lt , '* rx O 7K I 'll 0t ----------K/ \ Dz ' .
_ ' ' ... -- ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
X ~ ' &lt; .-- ; -'- ; &gt; .t--J:1 --- , ; .
I::.D. .
7K , i ?
1 0 ? ? ?
?~ ?
~ ~'~l~ ~ , I ) _I I_ __II_ _II_ _^LI__*__ __ ---1__11___-____1-1I __11 ----_C- ?
--IIIC---II .
---L1 I I\ r. / :( : : _ .
i i ; ( S. _w JV ' " ^- &gt;

