XI .
On the action of crystallized su es upon light .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F. R. S. Lond. and Edin .
In a letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G. C. B. P. R. S. &amp;c. &amp;c. &amp;c. Read February 95 , 1819 .
MY DEAR SIR , IT has been remarked by MALUS , in his Theory of Double Refraction , " that the action which the first surface of Iceland " c spar exercises upon light , is independent of the position of its principal section ; -that its reflecting power extends beyond " the limits of the polarising forces of the crystal , and that as light is only polarised by penetrating the surface , the forces which produce extraordinary refraction begin to act only at this limit .
" He also observes , that " the angle of incidence " at which Iceland spar polarises light by partial reflection , is " 56 ?
so ; that it then comports itself like a common transpa " rent body ; and that whatever be the angle comprehended " between the plane of incidence and the principal section of " the crystal , the ray refected by the first surface is always polarised in the same manner .
" * These conclusions , obtained experimentally by an author of such distinguished eminence , I should naturally have received as established truths , had I not been led , by a series of experiments made before the perusal of his work , to opinions of an opposite kind .
My experiments indicated an extension of the polarising forces beyond the crystal ; and I Tbeorie de la Double -Refraction , pp. 24.0 , 241 .
was thus induced to question the accuracy of MALUS 's views , and to repeat the experiments upon which he had founded them .
The results of this investigation , while they have overturned the opinions hitherto adopted , have at the same time led to the establishment of several points both of theoretical and practical importance .
In giving an account of these results , I shall first consider the effects produced upon transmitted light by a change in the mechanical condition of the surfaces of crystals , and then establish the laws according to which the interior forces affect and modify the forces which produce partial reflection .
SECT .
I. On the ffects produced upon transmitted light , by a change in the mechanical condition of the surfaces of crystals .
If we take a hexaedral prism of nitrate of potash , and observe a luminous object through two of its inclined surfaces that have a good natural or artificial polish , we shall perceive two distinct and perfectly formed images .
If we now roughen these two surfaces , and cement upon each of them a plate of glass by means of balsam of capivi , the character of the two images will be greatly changed .
The image that has suffered the greatest refraction will be as distinct as before , but the other image will be either of a faint reddish colour , or wholly invisible , according to the degree of roughness induced upon the refracting surfaces .
When oil of cassia is used instead of the balsam , the least refracted image , if it was visible before , will now be completely extinguished .
By substituting pure alcohol , or the white of an egg , instead of the balsam , the least refracted image will become distinct , and the most refracted image will be either a mass of nebulous 146 light , or almost invisible .
A result nearly similar will be obtained with water , notwithstanding its effect in dissolving the little prominences which constitute the superficial roughness of the crystal .
In order to explain these phenomena , we must recollect that the index of refraction for the ordinary image of nitre is i.l 1 , and that of the extraordinary image 1.328 .
When the rough surface of the nitre is covered with balsam of capivi , which has nearly the same index of refraction as the ordinary image , the same effect is produced as if the rough surface had been polished for the ordinary rays .
All the little pits or depressions in the rough surface being filled up with balsam , the ordinary rays suffer little or no refraction in penetrating the crystal , and therefore the image which they form will be as clear and distinct as in the first experiment .
But since the index of refraction for the extraordinary image is much less than that of the balsam , the rays of which it is composed will not enter the crystal undisturbed , but will be scattered in the same manner as if its surface was rough , and had a refractive power corresponding to the difference between the index of refraction for the extraordinary ray , and the index of refraction for the balsam .
When water or alcohol is substituted in room of the balsam , the effects now described are interchanged , the roughness being removed for the extraordinary rays by the application of a fluid of the same refractive density , while the rays that form the ordinary image are dispersed by the refractions which still exist at the rough surface of the crystal .
These effects will be still better understood by supposing the crystal to consist of an extraordinary and an ordinary I47 medium , arranged in alternate strata .
When the superficial polish of both these media is removed , the application of the balsam restores , as it were , the polish of the ordinary medium , without restoring that of the extraordinary medium ; while the applicaton of the alcohol restores the polish of the extraordinary medium without restoring that of the ordinary medium .
When the refractive power of the fluid is intermediate between that of the two media , the ordinary and the extraordinary image will be equally indistitct ; and we have it in our power to alter the distinctness of either of the images , by varying the refractive force of the interposed fluid .
If the plane of incidence is not perpendicular to the axis , a variation in the angle of incidence will produce a variation in the index of refraction of the extraordinary ray ; and , since the refractive power of the interposed fluid sufers no change , the extraordinary image must become more or less distinct , according as its index of refraction is made to approach more or less to that of the fluid , by varying the inclination of the refracted ray to the axis .
From the preceding experiments , which htave been repeated with the same results with calcareous spar , arragonite , and many other crystals , we may deduce the following conclusions : i. The force of double refractionand polarisation extends not only without the interior limit of the ordinary refractive force , but also without the surface of the crystal .
a. The force of double refraction and polarisation emanates from the surface of bodies , though its intensity depends upon the inclination of the surface to the axis of the crystal .
31 The ordinary or the extraordinary image may be extinguished at pleasure in any doubly refracting crystal ; and the crystal is thus converted into a singly refracting crystal , like certain specimens of agate .
4 .
In soft crystals that do not admit of a perfect polish , the distinctness of any of the two images may be made a maximum , by giving the crystal the best polish of which it is susceptible , and then cementing plates of glass upon its surfaces , by a transparent cement of the same refractive power as that of the pencil which is to be rendered most distinctIf it is required to make the two images equally distinct , the refractive power of the cement must be a mean between that of the ordinary refraction , and the extraordinary refraction which corresponds to the angle which the refracted ray forms with the axis of double refraction .
5 .
All doubly refracting crystals consist of an ordinary and an extraordinary medium , alternating with each other , and varying in density according to a law which I have described in another paper.* I consider the optical structure of agate as demonstrating the existence of two media .
In quartz , the two media are equally perfect and transparent ; but in certain specimens of agate , the one mediumis seen in a separate state from theother , and broken down into small portions like the figures 35 .
The light which passes through these portions , is evidently acted upon by a different refractive power from that which passes through the rest of the crystal , and is polarised in a transverse plain.* SECT .
II .
On the influence of the polarising force of doubly refracting crystals , upon the polarising force which accompanies partial reflection .
The experiments in the preceding section could not fail to throw a doubt upon the identity of action exercised upon reflected light by crystallized and uncrystallized surfaces .
I was therefore led to a more minute investigation of the subject , and obtained a series of very unexpected results , which I shall explain under the three heads into which they naturally arrange themselves .
i. On the change produced upon the polarising angle by the interior forces of doubly refracting crystals .
In order to examine with care the superficial action of calcareous spar , I exposed several surfaces by cleavage , and having selected the one that had the most perfect polish , I covered all the other sides of the rhomb with black wax , and measured the polarising angles in planes variously inclined to the principal section .
The following are the results of a great number of observations : Position of the crystal .
Azimuth .
Polarising No. of angle .
observations .
Short diagonal in plane of reflection o ? ?
57 ? ?
14 ' 39 One of the edges in plane of reflection 50.57- ' 58 3g 15 Long diagonal in plane of reflection 90 59 32 37 Difference between the greatest and least polarising angle 2218 ' See Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 104 ; 1814 , p. 9iI ; and Edin .
Trans. vol. vii .
p. 298 , 9 .
150 The following observations were made with rhombs taken from a different mass of calcareous spar : Position of the crystal .
Azimuth .
Pa , " gs obse angle .
observationso Short diagonal in plane of reflection o ? ?
57 ? ?
36 ' 5 One of the edges in plane of reflection 50 57-'2 58 50 7 Long diagonal in plane of reflection 90 59 44 7 In these experiments the results were the same , whether the obtuse angle of the rhomb was nearest or farthest from the eye , or whether it was to the right or left hand of the observer .
In order to determine the angle of polarisation for surfaces differently inclined to the axis , I selected some fine Faroe crystals of calcareous spar from the cabinets of Sir GEORGE MACKENZIE and Mr. ALLAN .
One of these crystals was an acute dodecahedron , having a highly polished surface inclined about 5 ?
to the axis , and with it I obtained the following results .
Position of the crystal .
Polarising angle .
No. of observations .
Axis in plane of reflection 5 ?
i8 ' 1 Axis perpendicular to plane of reflection 84 10 I was now desirous to obtain a surface perpendicular to the axis ; but I have searched in vain for such a specimen , and have invariably found that the summit of the prism is rough and unpolished .
With a surface polished by art , and cut perpendicular to the axis , I found the polarising angle about 58 ? ?
15 ' ; but I do not regard this result as deserving any particular attention .
In order to supply the defect of natural faces , I ground and polished a great variety of surfaces , inclined at all angles to the axis ; but the results clearly proved that the peculiar action of the surfaces , in varying the polarising angle , is exhibited only by the highly polished faces which are sometimes obtained from cleavage , or which occur in perfect crystals .
The following observations were made with a fine crystal of Chromate of lead : Position of the crystal .
Polarising angle .
No. of observations .
Axis of prism in plane of reflection 67 ? ?
48 ' 4 Axis of prism perpendicular to the plane of reflection 6 42 4 In the first of these positions a great quantity of brilliant blue light remained unpolarised , whereas in the second position the whole of the pencil suffered complete polarisation .
2 .
On the change produced upon the polarisation of the reflected ray , by the interior forces of doubly refracting crystals .
Since the extraordinary force in calcareous spar was thus shown to extend to such a distance beyond the surface as to modify the polarising angle produced by superficial reflection , it became extremely probable that the polarisation of the reflected ray might suffer some change from the same cause : but after the most careful observation , I could not discover the slightest indication of such an effect .
Upon reflecting farther , however , on the nature of the change which I had expected , it occurred to me that the action of the ordinary reflecting force was so powerful , as to mask the influence of the inferior force which emanated from the axis , and that the effect of the one might be rendered visible by diminishing the intensity of the other .
I accordingly introduced a film of oil of Cassia between a glass prism and the surface of the spar , and having inclined the prism at a very small angle to that surface , I thus separated the image formed at the common surface of the prism , and the oil from the image formed at the common sulrface of the oil and the spar .
The effect was exactly what I had anticipated .
The influence of the ordinary reflecting force was reduced almost to nothing , and the light reflected from the separating surface of the oil and the spar , was polarised at an angle of about 45-2 , and was almost entirely under the dominion of the force which emanated from the axis .
The following were the results obtained with an ordinary surface , inclined 450 ?
' to the axis .
I. Azimuth o ? .
When the plane of the principal section is in the plane of reflection , the light reflected at the surface of the oil and the spar is polarised in the plane of reflection , the obtuse solid angle being farthest from the eye .
The light of the image is of a faint red colour , and has very little intensity .
s. Azimuth 1 ? .
The obtuse angle being farthest from the eye , the reflected pencil is polarised about 45 out of the plane of reflection .
3 .
Azimuth 4 ?
0 .
The reflected pencil is polarised transverse to the plane of reflection , or 9go out of it .
The light is now of a yellowish white tint , and is much more intense than in azimuth o ? .
4 .
Azimuth 9go .
When the plane of reflection is perpendicular to the plane of the principal section , the obtuse solid angle being either to the right or left hand , the reflected pencil is polarised a little more than 135 , or-5 ?
out of the plane of reflection .
The intensity of the pencil is now intermediate between that of azimuth o0 and 45 ? .
5 .
Azimuth 180 ? .
The obtuse angle being now next the eye , the pencil is polarised I80o out of the plane of reflecion , or it has again returned into that plane .
In passing through the last 45 ?
' of azimuth , the polarisation aries very slowly , the change being only about 1o ?
; whereas in passing through the first,4 of azimuth , the polarisation varies no less than 90 , indicating in the most unequivocal manner , as we shall afterwards see , that this change depends upon the angle which the incident ray forms with the axis of the crystal .
The light reflected from the separating surface of the oil and the spar is a maximum , when the plane of the principal section is perpendicular to the plane of reflection , and its colour is then nearly white .
When these two planes coincide , the intensity of the light is a minimum , and its colour is then a faint red ; and in intermediate positions , the-reflected pencil has both its intensity and its colour of an intermediate character .
In the azimuth of 4 ?
, the reflected pencil exhibits a very curious phenomenon when analysed with calcareous spar .
Its colour is then yellowish white , and all the yellow light is polarised transversely to the plane of reflection .
One of the images , however instead of vanishing , consists of blue and red light , the red vanishing , and the blue becoming more brilliant as the analysing prism is turned to the left ; and the blue vanishing , and the red becoming more brilliant as the prism is turned to the right .
This effect arises from the diffe rence in the angles at which the red and blue rays are incident upon the separating surfce of the oil and the spar .
Each set of rays , therefore , as will afterwards appear , suffers a different change of polarisation , the one being polarised about 87* out of the plane of reflection , and the other 9g ; 154 I have repeated the preceding experiments by substituting in place of oil of cassia , water , alcohol , castor oil , balsam of capivi , and oil of anise seeds , a series of fluids whose refractive powers increase progressively .
With water , the light refuses to be polarised completely in the direction of the long diagonal , while it suffers complete polarisation in the direction of the short diagonal .
With alcohol , the direction of the polarisation is not altered .
With castor oil , the intensity of the light is greater in the direction of the long diagonal , than in that of the short one ; and in the former case , the pencil is polarised at a much greater angle than in the latter .
With balsam of capivi , in the azimuth of 45 ?
, the pencil is polarised about 15 ?
out of the plane of reflection .
In the azimuth of 90 ?
, the pencil is not completely polarised at any angle , but is nearly so in the plane of reflection , and at a considerable angle of incidence .
In o of azimuth , the pencil is completely polarised in the plane of reflection .
With oil of anise seeds , in azimuth 45 ?
, the pencil is polarised about 45 ?
out of the plane of reflection .
In azimuth go ?
, the pencil refuses to be polarised at any angle , and in o ?
of azimuth , the polarisation is complete in the plane of reflection .
As the preceding results were obtained with a surface inclined 45 ? ?
23- ' to the axis , I was anxious to observe the effects produced by the Faroe crystals , where the natural faces are nearly in the plane of the axis .
I accordingly repeated the experiments with a variety of these crystals , and in every case I observed the same phenomena .
In the azimuth of 90o , where the polarising angle is 58 ? ?
14 ' , the pencil was polarised a degree or two out of the plane of reflection .
In the azimuth of 45owhere the polarising angle is about 1'55 16 ' , the change of polarisation is about 40o ; and in the azimuth of 0o , where the polarising angle is 54 , 18 ' , the change of polarisation was a little more than 90 when the obtuse angle was farthest from the eye , and about 106 ?
when the obtuse angle was nearest the eye .
In all these positions the image reflected from the surface of the oil and the spar , is nearly as bright as that from the surface of the prism and the oil .
In order to deternmine the change of polarisation when the plane of reflection was perpendicular to the axis , it was necessary to have a prismatic crystal of calcareous spar with a polished summit ; but I have always found this summit rough and unpolished .
There was therefore no alternative but to polish an artificial face cut in this direction ; and upon the application of oil of cassia , I found that in every azimuth the change of polarisation was about 75 ? .
The colour of the image was a bright yellow , and a little blue light remained at the point of evanescence .
In extending these experiments to other crystals I have obtained similar results ; but there are none so well fitted for this species of examination as calcareous spar .
In applying oil of cassia to a very fine prism of chromate of lead , the direction of the polarisation was not in the slightest degree altered , as the ordinary action was not sufficiently weakened to render visible the influence of the interior force .
When the plane of reflection passed through the axis of the prism , blue light remained in the vanishing ima ge ; but in a plane rectangular to this , the light was completely polarised , as in the experiment when the reflecting surface was in contact with air , 156 I now tried rock crystal and oil of anise seeds , which have nearly the same mean refraction ; but on account of the great debility of the interior polarising force , it was not able to overpower or even to modify that which accompanies partial reflection .
I could easily have reduced this last force still farther till it came under the dominion of the first ; but the reflecting power would have been reduced in the same proportion , and would not have been capable of driving back a number of rays sufficient to form a perceptible image .
But though the polarisation is not changed at the separating surface of the oil and the rock crystal , yet the character of the reflected light is modified in a very remarkable manner .
When the plane of reflection from one of the sides of the prism of rock crystal was in the direction of the axis , or in o ?
of azimuth , the reflected image was a deep blue of very little intensity ; whereas in a rectangular direction , where the azimuth was 90g , it was of a brick red colour , and much more luminous .
On one of the faces of the pyramid , in azimuth o ?
, the tint was a brilliant pink , intermediate between the red and the blue ; and on the same face , in 90 ?
of azimuth , it was of a brick ?
ed colour as before .
These variations are obviously related to the axis of double refraction , and indicate the extension of its force within the sphere of partial reflection .
The origin of the colours themselves , I shall soon have occasion to explain , in a paper on the action of uncrystallized surfaces .
X. General results deduced from the preceding experiments .
Had it been in my power to command a series of the most * This Paper was read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh , on the 4th January SIS9 .
perfect crystals , or to communicate to artificial faces that high polish which nature often exhibits , I might have obtained a:more complete generalisation of the preceding phenomena .
Limited , however , as the investigation has been by these causes , it still presents us with several views of great generality and interest .
FIRST .
The force of double refraction and polarisation extends without the surface of crystals , and within the sphere of the force which produces partial reflection .
SECOND .
The change in the angle of polarisation produced by the interior force , depends on the inclination of the reflecting surface to the axis of the crystal , and also on the azimuthal angle which the plane of reflection forms with the principal section , In any given surface , where A and A " are the minimum and maximum polarising angles , viz. in the azimuth of o ?
and go9 , the polarising angle A ' at any intermediate azimuth a , may be found by the formula A ' A+ Sin.2 ( A"A ) .
In the rhomboidal surfaces of calcareous spar A"A138 ' .
THIRD .
The change in the direction of the polarisation must be produced after the ray has suffered reflection ; for if the change preceded reflection , the reflecting force would have polarised it in the plane of reflection , whatever had been the direction of its previous polarisation .
FOURTH .
The change in the direction of the polarisation depends upon the angle which the incident ray forms with the axis of the crystal , and takes place in such a manner that if = angle of incident ray with the axis ; and C= change in the direction of the polarisation , we shall have Sin. C =-/ Sin. P q. If we make A= complement of the inclination of the reflecting plane to the axis ; azimuth of the plane of incidence with the principal section ; and i= angle of incidence reckoned from the perpendicular , we shall have Cos. ax Tang. A= Tang. z , and Cos. = Cos. Ax Cos. ( i z ) Cos. cP Cos. w Cos z. In one of the ordinary rhomboidal surfaces where the inclination to the axis is 45 ? ?
2t3j ' Aa 441 ?
$6 ' ; and with oil of cassia i or the incidence of the mean ray , when the polarisation is complete , is about 450 ? ?
7 ' .
I have assumed it at 450 23L ' ( which will be more correct for the mean luminous ray than 45 ? ?
17i ) for the purpose of making the change of polarisation commence with zero in o ?
of azimuth .
Upon these principles I have computed the following table , which shows the change in the direction of the polarisation , corresponding to any azimuth and any inclination of the inident ray with the axis .
159 TABLE showing the change in the direction of the polarisation in different azimuths .
h. t Inclination of inciChange in the direction Azilmut .
dent ray to the axis .
of the polarisation .
o0/ OIO0000 1o 6 54 i 40 36 I 20 I 16 5 65 66 3 ? ?
23 0 77 22 40 29 2924 88 52 45 32 38 94 34 50 57v36 29 o00 54 60 42 I7 Io 10 1 70 48 32 120 0 80 54 37 29 8 90 60 o 137 ?
o00 65 56 145 48 1 10 71 4 I53 4 120 , J 75 42 159 48 i 129 2k 79 28 63 X35 8 41 1 6946 140 83 22 17 34 150 86 i2 1 74 52 l60 88 18 177 36 170 89 33 179 28 180 9go0 o18 o The results in the preceding table enable us to explain the phenomenon described in p. 154 .
As the interposed oil of cassia has a prismatic form and a very high dispersive , power , the blue and the red rays are incident at different angles with the axis , and therefore the change in the direction of their polarisation must be different .
The nearest approximation to evanescence in one of the images , belongs to the mean ray of the spectrum , and therefore at this point the image that should have vanished , must consist of blue and red light , one of which will disappear before , and the other after , the mean ray .
I have the honour to be , &amp;c. &amp;c. &amp;c. DAVID BREWSTER .
To the Right Hon. Sir JOSEPH BAN K , Bart. G , C. B. P. R. S. &amp;c. &amp;c. &amp;c. Edinburgh , Nov. 12 , i8 8 .
From ibe Press of W. BUL MER &amp; Co. Cleveland-row , St..ames 's ,

