III .
Experiments on the depolarisation of light as exhibited by various mineral , animal , and vegetable bodies , with a reference of the phenomena to the general principles of polarisation .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F. R. S. Edin .
and F. S. A. Edin .
In a letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R. S. Read December 15 , 1814 .
DEAR SIR , TOWARDS the end of the year 1812 , when I was engaged in examining the light transmitted through diaphanous bodies , I discovered the property which many of them possessed of depolarising the rays of light , or of depriving them of the polarity which they had received , either by reflection from the surface of a transparent body , or by transmission through a plate of agate .
A short account of these experiments , which were exhibited to many of my friends in Edinburgh , was soon afterwards published in my treatise on new philosophical instruments .
As this singular property was possessed by numerous substances that exhibited no marks of double refraction , and even by animal and vegetable products , such as horn , tortoiseshell , and gum Arabic , it appeared necessary to distinguish it by a new name , and to refer it to a species of crystallization different from that of doubly refracting crystals .
The circumstance , however , of agate and Iceland spar possessing faculty both of polarising and depolarising light , and the constant relation in the position of the axes which regulated these apparently opposite actions , induced me to think that the two classes of phenomena had the same origin .
This opinion was afterwards strengthened by an experiment with a bundle of glass plates , in which light was depolarised by polarising it in a new plane ; but in applying the principle to other phenomena , I was baffled in every attempt to generalise them .
By extending , however , and varying the experiments ; by examining the optical properties of every substance which I could command , and by comparing their structure with the phenomena which they exhibited , I have been led to the general principle to which they all belong , and to a series of results which , from their very nature , could not easily have been established by direct experiment .
These conclusions , independently of their optical consequences , are peculiarly interesting to the chemist and the natural philosopher , by disclosing the structure of organised substances , and exhibiting new relations among the bodies of the animal , the vegetable , and the mineral kingdoms .
In proceeding to illustrate this subject , I shall first give some account of the experiments on which the theory is founded , and then explain the theory itself , and the conclusions which it seems to involve .
I. Experiments on the depolarisation of light .
I have already explained , in a former paper , * the general phenomena of depolarisation , and have shown that almost all regularly crystallized bodies , such as plates of mica , of calcaPhilosophical Transactions , i814 , Part I , p. I99 .
reous spar , and of topaz , have two neutral axes at right angles to each other , and two depolarising axes at right angles to each other , and forming angles of 45 ' with the neutral axes .
In mica , the neutral axes coincide with the diagonals of its primitive rhomboidal base .
In calcareous spar the neutral axes are coincident with the diagonals of any of its rhomboidal faces , while the depolarising axes are parallel to the sides of these faces ; but when polarised light is transmitted along the short diagonal of the rhomb itself , there is no position in which it is depolarised , or in which the two images continue visible during the whole revolution of the prism of calcareous spar next the eye .
The evanescent image is no doubt restored by the interposition of the rhomb , but this only shifts the vanishing place of the images which will continue to disappear alternately in every quadrant .
In topaz , the neutral axes coincide with the diagonals of the base of its primitive right prism , and the depolarising axes are parallel to the sides of any of its square faces .
The minerals , in which I have not found the property of depolarising light , are muriate of soda , or rock salt , fluor spar , and a crystal of spinelle ruby .
I have cut numerous plates in different directions from a cube of muriate of soda , and have tried many specimens of fluor spar , but in none of them could I discover the least trace of depolarising axes .
The only mineral which depolarises light in every position , and therefore possesses no neutral axes , is the diamond .
Out of fourteen specimens of this gem which I examined , seven depolarised light in every position ; four did not depolarise light at all ; one depolarised about a fifth part of the light , Si one about half of the light , and one nearly the whole of the light .
Semi-opal , like the diamond , depolarises light in every position ; but there is an obvious approximation to neutral axes .
In employing another class of bodies , we are presented with a series of very singular results , which not only develope new affections of light , but lead to important conclusions respecting the crystallization of organised and unorganised bodies .
i. Gum Arabic .
This vegetable substance , which is formed by concentric coats , has no neutral axes ; but depolarises light in every position .
In a very thiii chip , however , the neutral axes are distinctly visible .
With a strong solution of gum Arabic in water , I formed a thin film of it upon a plate of glass .
In two or three days it became very hard , but though I have kept it six months , it has not acquired the property of depolarising light .
2 .
Gum from the cherry tree .
A plate of this gum about onetwentieth of an inch thick , and so soft as to yield to the gentlest pressure of the nail , depolarises light , but the image does not wholly vanish in the neutral axes .
Another plate of the gum , but exuded from a different part of the same tree , and much softer than the former , depolarises only a small portion of light .
3 .
Caoutchouc .
This gum is composed of concentric or parallel layers of a vegetable juice , which are successively indurated by exposure to the sun .
When a thin plate of it is made transparent by pressure between two plates of glass , it exhibits no neutral axes , but depolarises light in every position , in whatever direction the film is cut from the mass .
When the film was so extremely thin , that it could not be made transparent by pressure between two plates of glass , I stretched it over the mouth of a tube upon a piece of plane glass , and prevented it by means of a cord from recovering its shape .
A layer of Canada balsam being then placed both below and above the caoutchouc , and another plate of glass laid upon the upper layer of balsam , the film became perfectly transparent .
When exposed to polarised light , it exhibited neutral axes , like the most perfect crystals .
When caoutchouc is dissolved by heat , it loses completely its property of depolarisation , but it gradually recovers its former structure , and after a certain number of days , it is again capable of depolarising light .
A piece of caoutchouc , which had been melted by heat , resumed its faculty of depolarisation at the end of twenty-five days ; but upon pressing it gently with my finger , its structure was again destroyed , and at the end of nineteen days , it depolarised a small portion of nebulous light .
Another piece of caoutchouc , dissolved by heat , had not recovered its crystalline state at the end of six days .
After standing eighteen days , it depolarised a con , siderable quantity of light , and at the end of five or six weeks , it was capable of restoring the whole of the vanished image .
4 .
White wax .
When a piece of wax is melted and cooled between two plates of glass , or when it is merely pressed between them by the heat of the hand , it .
depolarises light in every position .
The restored image , however , has a nebulous appearance .
5 .
Rosin and whzte wax mixed .
Rosin alone has not the property of depolarising light .
When it is mixed with an equal part of white wax , and is pressed between two plates of glass by the heat of the hand , the film is almost perfectly transparent by transmitted light , though of a milky white appearance by reflected light .
It has not the property of depolarisation when the polarised pencil is incident vertically , but it possesses it in a very perfect manner at an oblique incidence , and exhibits the segments of coloured rings .
6 .
Cells of the bee .
The waxen partitions of the honey-comb , when rendered transparent by layers of Canada balsam , depolarise light in every position .
7 .
Manna .
This substance , when melted by heat between plates of glass , depolarises light in every position .
8 .
Camphor .
A small piece of this substance when pressed between two plates of glass , without the application of heat , depolarises light in every position .
9 .
Balsam of Tolu .
When a thin plate of this substance is formed between plates of glass with the assistance of a gentle heat , it depolarises light in every position ; and a considerable degree of heat is necessary to deprive it of its crystalline structure .
When it is allowed to cool very slowly , it does not acquire the property of depolarisation .
o. VWithered flm at the root of the Calla Ethiopica .
This vegetable film depolarises light , and possesses distinct neutral axes which are parallel and perpendicular to the stalk of the plant , or to the parallel veins in the film .
11 .
The fibres of flax , hemp , and cotton .
These vegetable fibres depolarise light , and have perfect neutral axes parallel and perpendicular to the axes of the fibres .
I. The thin white semi-transparent leaf of the sea-weed depolarises a small portion of light , and its neutral axes are parallel and perpendicular to the axis of the leaf .
S4 13 .
Adipocirefrom muscular fibre .
This substance melts as easily as white wax .
It depolarises light in every position , and crystallizes differently from wax , manna , and spermaceti .
14 .
Adipocirefrom the burying ground of the church des Innocens at Paris .
This substance melts at as low a temperature as the preceding , and when cooled between two plates of glass , it crystallizes in concentric rings which appear through the microscope like clusters of islands in a map , surrounded with engraved circles .
It has no neutral axes , but depolarises light in every position .
15 .
Adipocire from biliary calculi .
This body crystallizes exactly like benzoic acid , which it resembles in appearance , shooting out spicula at angles of about so0 .
It requires a very considerable heat to melt it ; crystallizes rapidly , and depolarises light in every position .
16 .
The benzoic and oxalic acids , when melted by heat , and then cooled , depolarise light in every position .
17 .
Spermaceti .
This substance , when melted and cooled , depolarises light in every direction ; and when pressed between two plates of glass without the aid of heat , it exhibits traces of coloured rings by polarised light .
18 .
Gold beaters ' skin .
Having procured a remarkably thin film of this animal substance , I rendered it transparent by placing it between layers of Canada balsam .
It possessed the property of depolarising light , but it did not restore the whole of the evanescent pencil .
Its neutral axes were not so perfectly developed as in the thin film of caoutchouc .
19 .
Transparent and common soap .
A plate of transparent soap of any thickness depolarises light in every position ; and Fs a thin film of the common yellow and white soap has the same property .
20 .
Human hair .
The fine transparent hair of a child depolarises light , and possesses the most perfect neutral axes .
These axes are parallel and perpendicular to the axis of the hair .
21 .
Bristles of a sow possess the same properties as hair .
The neutral axes are seen more distinctly in this than in the preceding experiment , on account of the greater magnitude of the bristles .
22 .
The fibres of silk and wool depolarise light , and have neutral axes parallel and perpendicular to the axes of the fibres .
23 .
The silkworm gut and sheep gut depolarise light .
In the former the neutral axes are perfectly developed , but in the latter there is merely an approximation to them .
24 .
The human cuticle depolarises light in every position .
25 .
Parchment depolarises light in every direction .
In two positions , at right angles to each other , the restored image is indistinct and principally nebulous ; while in other two positions at right angles to each other , at angles of 45 ?
with the former , the restored image is distinct .
26 .
The horny excrescence on the human foot depolarises light in every position .
27 .
The transparent film at the joints of the claws of the common Partan depolarises light ; and has neutral axes parallel and perpendicular to the length of the claw .
28 .
The human nail depolarises light in every position .
29 .
A quill , and the thinfilm which lines the inside of it , depolarise light .
The former exhibits coloured rings , and the latter has distinct neutral axes .
go .
The cartilaginous breast bone of a chicken depolarises lighty and has neutral axes parallel and perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the bone .
31 .
The transparent cartilage from the shoulder of a sheep has neutral axes , and produces the coloured rings by polarised light .
32 .
The transparent edge of the small fibres which compose the feathery part of a quill depolarise light , and have their neutral axes parallel and perpendicular to the axis of the fibre .
It forms also an extraordinary prismatic image of the candle by transmitted light .
33 .
The down of goose and ostrich feathers depolarise light .
Feathers from the neck and tail of a cock have neutral axes parallel and perpendicular to the direction of the fibres .
34 .
Flat bones of a cod .
These bones depolarise light in every position , and exhibit coloured rings by polarised light .
The soft cartilaginous substance , which is sometimes connected with them , possesses the same properties .
35 .
Cylindrical bones offish .
These bones depolarise light , and have their neutral axes parallel and perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder .
They exhibit also colours by polarised light .
36 .
Ivory .
A very thin film of ivory possesses neutral and depolarising axes , as perfectly as the most regularly crystallized mineral .
When the vanished image is restored by the ivory , the intensity of the light of the other image is very much diminished , the difference between the two images being greater than I have found it in any other body .
The film of ivory forms by transmitted light two highly coloured images on each side of the common image , like those which I have described in my paper on mother of pearl.* 3,7 .
Whalebone depolarises light , and has neutral axes parallel and perpendicular to the direction of the fibres .
38 .
Horn .
This substance also depolarises light in every position , and exhibits the coloured rings by polarised light .
S9 .
Mother of pearl depolarises light in every position when the polarised pencil has a small angle of incidence ; but when the angle of incidence is about 60 , and the plate about the thirtieth of an inch thick , it acts exactly like a bundle of glass plates , shifting merely the vanishing place of the image .
f 40o Bladder of a cow depolarises light in every position .
41 .
Human cornea depolarises light in every position , and exhibits coloured rings by polarised light .
The tunica retina and the crystalline lens exercise no peculiar action on light .
49 .
Cornea of a cow depolarises light in every position , and exhibits colours by polarised light .
When it is pressed hard between the lenses , so as to induce a milky opacity , it still retains the power of depolarisation .
The crystalline lens does not possess any of these properties .
43 .
Cornea of afish depolarises light in every position , but most powerfully near its junction with the sclerotic coat , and exhibits coloured rings by polarised light .
The crystalline lens , the sclerotic coat , and the capsule of the crystalline lens , exercise no action upon polarised light .
When two capsules were put together , a partial depolarisation took place , arising probably from the obliquity of the folds .
44 .
Glue depolarises light in every position .
45 .
Hard isinglass depolarises light in every position .
When dissolved in water , it acquires this property a few hours after coagulation .
46 .
Acetate of lead .
This salt melts at a temperature not much greater than that of bees ' wax , and takes a long time to cool and crystallize .
It depolarises light in every position .
When the plates of glass , in which it is included , are considerably inclined to each other , the acetate of lead developes a second image in the act of cooling , but owing to the crystallization which takes place , both the images are imperfectly visible .
Its refractive power increases a little after crystallization , and the new image that is developed is the one that is most refracted .
47 .
Glass of borax .
A thick piece of this glass depolarises light in every position .
Another piece of considerable thickness had no effect upon polarised light .
48 Amber sometimes depolarises light in every position , and sometimes exhibits neutral axes .
49 .
Gum anime .
A piece of this gum , three quarters of an inch thick , depolarises light in every position , and seems to produce the complementary colours by polarised light .
Small fragments of it depolarise only a small quantity of light .
50 .
Sulphur , when melted between two plates of glass , depolarises light in every position .
It acquires this property in a few minutes .
51 .
Ice .
Some plates of ice depolarise light in every position , while others exhibit neutral axes .
39 5g .
Oil of mace .
This soft solid exhibits optical properties of a very peculiar character .
When it is pressed into a thin film between two plates of glass without the aid of heat , it depolarises light in every position .
It melts nearly at the temperature of blood heat , and takes a long time to cool and crystallize .
If a thin plate of it is melted , and afterwards cooled between two pieces of glass , the image of a candle when seen through some parts of it , is encircled with a halo of nebulous light , varying in different plates from o ?
to 16 ?
in diameter , and having its central parts of a bluish colour , and the circumference of a reddish brown hue .
In other parts of the film the halo disappears .
When the polarised light of a candle is transmitted through those parts of the film which do not produce the halo , it is depolarised in every position ; but when the light is transmitted through the marginal parts , or those which produce the halo , the oil of mace restoresfour wings of light or four lunzinous sectors , in the centre of which is the place of the evanescent image .
Through intermediate parts of the film , it depolarises two luminous images of the candle , separated by a narrow dark space , and manifestly formed of condensed nebulous light. .
Upon moving the film from the position which gives the luminous sectors , into that which gives the complete image of the candle , the wings or sectors gradually diverge from their common centre , and then vanish ; and upon moving the film from the same position into that which gives the two luminous images , each adjacent pair of the sectors approach one another , and are condensed into two luminous semi-circles , which form the two images already mentioned .
In the dark space between these two images , the vanished image reappears by the slightest motion of the prism of calcareous spar .
In some plates of oil of mace , this dark interval is occupied with a third image , so that the depolarised image has the appearance of being composed of three images closely pressing upon each other .
In other plates the bright image is partly depolarised , even when the luminous sectors are visible .
The phenomena of the luminous sectors will be understood from P1 .
V. fig. i , where AB is the , plane in which the light of the candle is polarised , and MN the two images of it formed by a prism of calcareous spar , m being the place of the vanished image , and n the visible image .
The evanescent image at m is surrounded with the four luminous sectors 1 , , 5 , 7 , separated by dark sectors 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 .
The bright image of the candle .
at N is also surrounded with four luminous sectors 9 , i1 , 13,15 , separated by dark sectors 1o , 12 , 14 , 6 ; but these sectors , of which 11 and 15 are the brightest , are not nearly so luminous as those at M. If the oil of mace is kept in one position , while the prism of calcareous spar is turned round so as to make the image N move about M , as a centre in the direction BC , the evanescent image of the candle begins to appear at m : the luminous sectors turn round in the direction i , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 : the sectors i , 5 grow fainter , and 9 , 15 brighter ; and after the image N has moved through an arch of 45 ?
the two images M and N have nearly the same appearance .
When the image N has described an arch of 9o0 , the sectors have the appearance represented in fig. 2 , the candle having regained its full lustre in the middle of M , and having vanished in the middle of n. The sectors l , 5 are now the faintest of those round m , all of which are much inferior in brilliancy to those with which n is encircled .
When equal parts of rosin and oil of mace are mixed together , a film formed out of the mixture depolarises , imperfectly , the four luminous sectors .
53 .
Tallow .
When tallow is melted between two plates of glass , and then slowly cooled , it exhibits no optical indications of a crystallized structure .
After having stood five or six days , an incipient crystallization is exhibited in the property which it acquires of depolarising a small portion of nebulous light .
This nebulosity gradually increases : about the eleventh day , it assumes an imperfect resemblance to the four luminous sectors produced by oil of mace ; and about the sixteenth day , the form of the sectors is fully developed .
Another plate formed of the fat of mutton , after standing five months , has acquired in some parts the property of depolarising a portion of nebulous light , while , in other parts , it depolarises a small part of the bright image .
In a third plate , suddenly cooled by immersion in cold water , very faint traces of four large luminous sectors were visible by a careful exclusion of extraneous light .
54 .
Tortoise shell depolarises light in every position , and produces the coloured rings by polarised light .
When a candle is viewed through tortoise shell , it is surrounded with a double halo , which becomes elliptical by inclining the plate to the incident rays .
When the polarised light of a candle is ' depolarised , the restored image is surrounded with four very taint luminous sectors , like those in oil of mace .
55 .
Heated glass .
When glass is brought nearly to a red heat , it depolarises light in every position , and the quantity of depolarised light diminishes gradually with the temperature .
56 .
RUPERT'S drops of unannealed glass .
When drops of melted glass are suddenly cooled by immersion in cold water , they acquire the faculty of depolarising light in every position , and of exhibiting the coloured rings by polarised light .
At a certain thickness of the tail of the drop , the neutral axes are perfectly developed , and are parallel and perpendicular to the axis of the tail.* 57 .
The semi-transparent andflat extremity of one of the legs of a young partan gives only a nebulous image of a candle , but depolarises the nebulous light in every position .
58 .
A tubular film from the body of a partan , depolarises a small quantity of nebulous light .
The following table contains a list of substances chiefly of animal and vegetable origin , which have no effect in depolarising light .
Gold leaf .
Some crystals of diamond .
Muriate of soda .
Fluor spar .
A crystal of spinelle ruby .
Muriate of ammonia .
Rochelle salts dissolved , and crystallized on the side of a glass .
Nitrate of lead dissolved , and crystallized on the side of a glass .
Sclerotic coat of a fish .
Crystalline lens of a fish .
Crystalline lens of a cow , Capsule of the crystalline lens of a fish .
Ambergris melted and cooled .
Film which surrounds the hydatids .
Delicate film which lines the ribs of a lamb .
Film from the stalk of the rhubarb .
Film , or epidermis , which covers the shell solen ensis .
4+4 Dr. BREWSTER'S e Resin of bile melted and cooled .
Jelly from calves ' feet .
The skin of a fowl .
Scale from the body of a bee .
Hair of a bee .
Wing of a bee .
Wing of a house beetle .
Wing of the May fly .
Wing of the stone fly .
The byssus , or hair from the pinna marina .
Wing of the meloc vesicatorius .
Film which covers the tubular stalk of the leontodon taraxacum .
Film between the coats of an onion .
Film on the leaf of the American house leek .
Leaf of the hydrangea .
Spatha of a lily .
Film of gum Arabic formed by evaporation .
Rosin , 'xperiments on the Gum copal .
Thin fragments of gum anime .
Gum galbanum .
Gum juniper .
Canada balsam indurated .
The spheres on sea-weed .
Film which lines the stalk ofthefleur de lys .
Thin slices from a wafer .
Filaments of the pappus of the leontodon taraxacunm .
Film which lines the shell of an egg .
Skin of a dried grape .
Phosphorus .
Hair from the fur of a seal .
Skin of an infant eleven months old .
Skin of a child two months before birth .
Skin of a herring .
Gum mastic .
Burgundy pitch .
II .
Theory of the depolarisation of light .
The various modes in which bodies depolarise light may be reduced to seven .
1 .
When the crystal possesses neutral axes , and forms two images which are capable of being rendered visible , as in calcareous spar , topaz , &amp;c. 2 .
When the crystal possesses neutral axes and exhibits only a single image , as the human hair and various transparent , films .
$ .
When the crystal has no neutral axes , but depolarises light in every position , as in gum Arabic , caoutchouc , tortoise shell , &amp;c. When there is an approach to a neutral axis , as in goldbeater 's skin , &amp;c. 5 .
When the crystal depolarises , or restores only a part of the polarised image , as in a film of sea-weed and a film from the partan .
6 .
When the crystal depolarises luminous sectors of nebulous light , as the oil of mace .
7 .
When the crystal restores the vanished image , but allows it to vanish again during the revolution of the calcareous spar .
i. The first of these modes , of depolarising light admits of an easy and satisfactory explanation .
Let Rr , fig. 3 , be the light of a candle completely polarised by reflection in the direction rS from the surface of the transparent body AB .
If this light is viewed through a prism of calcareous spar CD , * when its principal section is neither coincident with , nor perpendicular to the plane of reflection RrS , two images of the candle will be seen ; but upon turning round the prism CD , one of the two images will vanish alternately in every quadrant of the circular motion of the prism .
Let the prism therefore be fixed in the position which it has when one of the images has vanished , in which case the principal section will be either parallel or perpendicular to the plane RrS .
If a rhomb of calcareous spar MNOP is now interposed , so that the principal section MN is either parallel or perpendicular to the plane RrS , the vanished image will still be invisible .
Upon turning round the rhomb MNOP , the vanished image will begin to appear , and when MO is in the plane of reflection RrS , it will have reached its maximum brightness .
It will again vanish when OP is in the plane of reflection , and will again recover its lustre when ON is in that plane , having vanished and reappeared four times in the course of one revolution of the rhomb .
If the rhomb MNOP is kept fixed when the vanished image has reappeared ; and if the prism CD is turned round , the two images will continue visible during every part of its circular motion , and hence the polarised ray rS , seems to have been robbed of its polarisation or depolarised .
In order to explain these appearances , let CD be fixed in its former position , and let the rhomb MNOP have its principal section or neutral axis in the plane RrS .
This rhomb is known to give two images of the candle formed by rays ST , SV , nearly coincident , but owing to its present position , one of the pencils , that would have moved in the direction ST , refuses to penetrate the rhomb , and therefore only one pencil SV , polarised in the same manner as rS , falls upon the prism CD .
Now this prism being obviously placed in the position where its power of doubling SV is extinguished , that is , where one of the pencils , into which it separates SV , has vanished , a single image E of the candle will still only be visible , notwithstanding the interposition of the rhomb .
The very same reasoning is applicable to the case where the longer diagonal OP is in the plane of reflection .
The prism CD continuing fixed , as before , let the side MO , or the depolarising axis of the rhomb , be brought into the plane of reflection .
In this situation of the crystals , both the pencils ST , SV , fall upon the prism CD , which has now the 46 particular position that enables it to double each of these pencils ; so thatfour images of the candle i , 2 , , , 4 , will now be visible .
As the rhomb MNOP produces only a very small separation of the pencils ST , SV , the two images i , 2 , will overlap each other , and resemble only one image at E , while the other two images , 4 , will appear as a single image at F. Every thing remaining fixed , let the prism CD be turned round in a plane perpendicular to ST .
The effect of this will be to extinguish one of each of the double images E and F at every quarter of a revolution , that is , first the images i and 3 , then the images 2 and then the images and again , and last of all the images 2 and 4 .
Still , however , one image is always left at E and another at F , so that when the polarised ray rS passes through the depolarising axis MO of the rhomb , the two images E and F continue visible in every part of the motion of the prism .
The depolarisation , therefore , of the pencil rS , is nothing more than the polarisation of it in a new plane , and the depolarising rhomb MNOP acts in every respect like a doubly refracting and polarising crystal .
2 .
In the second kind of depolarisation where the human hair , or a plate of mica is substituted in place of the rhomb of calcareous spar , the phenomena are precisely the same as those which have been described in the preceding section , and therefore we are necessarily led to suppose that the human hair and the mica form two images polarised in an opposite manner , like those given by calcareous spar .
These two images indeed being produced by the same , or nearly by the same refractive power , cannot be rendered visible by any contrivance ; but when we consider that the depolarising axes of the mica coincide with the long and short diagonals of its 47 primitive rhomboidal base , as in the case of calcareous spar and topaz , and that there is a variation in the intensity of the light of the images E and F , during the revolution of the prism , we must consider the existence of two oppositely polarised images as no longer problematical .
Hence it follows , that every substance which possesses the property of depolarising light in the second manner , must necessarily form two coincident or nearly coincident images polarised in an opposite manner ; or to speak more correctly , a pencil of common light transmitted through depolarising crystals , consists of a portion of light polarised like one of the pencils formed by calcareous spar , and of another equal portion polarised like the other pencil formed by calcareous spar .
Depolarising substances , consequently , are not entitled to the name of doubly refracting crystals , when the two oppositely polarised pencils are not capable of being separated from each other , and till this separation is actually seen , we must consider the two pencils as produced by the same refractive power .
We would therefore propose to designate all substances that form two separable images , such as calcareous spar , quartz , topaz , &amp;c. by the name of doubly refracting crystals , and those which do not form two separable images , such as diamond , mica , heated glass , the human hair , &amp;c. by the name of doubly polarising crystals .
3 .
The third species of depolarisation is characterised by the substance having no neutral axes , and depolarising light in every position ; and is possessed by gum Arabic , caoutchouc , and many other bodies which are known to be formed by the successive deposition and induration of thin layers .
48 When the first layer of gum Arabic or caoutchouc is deposited and crystallized , it will possess both neutral and depolarising axes like every other crystal .
The second layer will likewise have these axes , but there is manifestly no cause which can make the neutral and depolarising axes of the second layer coincide with those of the first layer ; so that after a number of layers are formed , there will be a depolarising axis in every direction .
In order to illustrate this conclusion by direct experiment , we have only to place one plate of mica above another , so as to make the neutral axis of the one coincide with the depolarising axis of the other .
It will then be seen that all the axes become depolarising axes , and that the compound crystal acts upon light exactly like gum Arabic and caoutchouc .
If this explanation be correct , we should expect to find , that a film of gum Arabic or caoutchouc , reduced to a less thickness than any individual layer , would exhibit its neutral axes , and lose the property of depolarising light in every position .
This interesting result I have repeatedly obtained both with gum Arabic and caoutchouc , as described in experiments i and 3 , so that we have both a synthetical and an analytical proof of the explanation which has been given of the third kind of depolarisation .
Hence it follows , that all substances which depolarise light in every position , are formed by layers successively deposited and crystallized ; that every layer has neutral and depolarising axes , like regularly crystallized bodies ; and that the axes of one layer is not related in point of direction to those of its adjacent layers .
4 .
Thefourth kind of depolarisation is exhibited in the film of gold beaters ' skin , where there is an approach to a neutral axis .
When a body is composed of two or more films whose neutral axes are nearly coincident , the compound film will exhibit the fourth kind of depolarisation , and the approximation to a neutral axis will be more or less perfect , as the coincidence of the axes is more or less complete .
This phenomenon is most likely to be exhibited by thin plates which are composed of a small number of films .
Hence every body , in which there is an approach to a neutral axis , must be composed of two or more films , whose neutral axes happen to be nearly coincident .
These films are probably deposited and crystallized at different times ; or if their crystallization has been simultaneous , the forces , or causes by which it was produced , must have acted independently of each other .
5 .
The fifth kind of depolarisation takes place when there is an approach to a depolarising axis , or when the crystal restores only a portion of the vanished image .
If we suppose one part of a body to have no crystalline texture , while another part of it has the structure necessary to depolarise light , it will exhibit correctly the fifth kind of depolarisation .
The uncrystallized portion being incapable of restoring any part of the vanished image , the light which it transmits will form no part of the depolarised pencil , which will consist merely of the rays transmitted through the structure which has the property of double polarisation .
The magnitude , therefore , of the depolarised pencil will be a measure of the portion of the substance which has undergone crystallization .
From the phenomena of caoutchouc , this explanation derives great support .
When the crystalline texture of this substance has been destroyed by heat , it ceases to act upon 50 polarised light .
After it begins to crytallize , however , a small portion of light is at first depolarised .
This portion gradually increases , and the image is not completely restored till the crystallization has pervaded the whole mass .
The experiments with oil of mace furnish us with another proof of this explanation , and exhibit a case in which a part of the substance is permanently crystallized , while another part of it is permanently uncrystallized .
Hence we may conclude , that bodies which depolarise only a portion of light , either consist of permanently crystallized and uncrystallized portions , or are in a state of approach to a perfect crystalline structure , the crystallizedportion being always proportional to the quantity of depolarised light .
6 .
The sixth kind of depolarisation is exhibited in the curious phenomena of oil of mace , which sometimes depolarises four sectors of nebulous light .
Those plates of oil of mace , in which the luminous sectors are alone depolarised , have obviously two structures , namely , that which forms the bright , and that which forms the nebulous image .
The structure which forms the bright image has no more action upon light than a mass of water , as it does not in the slightest degree alter its polarity ; but the structure which forms the luminous halo possesses a peculiar character .
If we suppose the halo to be divided , as in P1 .
V , fig. i ; into eight sectors i , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , every alternate sector i , $ , 5 , 7 , is polarised in the same manner as the incident light , while the other sectors 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 , are polarised in an opposite manner .
Now , if this halo consisted only of one nebulous image , the evanescence of every alternate sector would take place without applying the calcareous spar , and merely by H2 51 transmitting polarised light through the oil of mace ; but as this is not the case , * it necessarily follows that there are two halos , or nebulous images , the one lying exactly above the other , and having every alternate sector polarised in an opposite manner , while each sector in the one image has an opposite polarisation to the corr'esponding sector in the other image .
An idea of this curious property may be formed from fig. 4 , in which we have shown the two halos at a distance , and distinguished the opposite kinds of polarisation by the signs + and - .
Those parts of oil of mace which depolarise a portion of the bright image , while they form the luminous sectors , have therefore the faculty of formingfour images , two bright and two nebulous , possessing the characters which have already been described .
The two adjacent images which are formed by some portions of the plate of oil of mace , are obviously produced by the sectors i , 7 , and S , 5 , fig. 1 being condensed on each side of m , and when three images are depolarised , the third image is a portion of the bright image restored at m , the place of its evanescence .
If we knew in what way the halo itself is formed , there would probably be no difficulty in explaining these remarkable phenomena .
The diameter of the halo is too small to allow us to suppose that the polarisation of the sectors can be efficted by oblique reflection or refraction , and though it is extremely probable that light is partially polarised by inflexion ?
: : ? ? ? ?
*1 ? ? ? ?
+ ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
ji * ... .l.I + ; i " - ... ... .i .
1 i"'X.('~'j , i~ !
?.i~i ? ?
NN 7N I 1 , ~ IV 0 &gt; . ?
: ' : ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? .
N S~ ?
: : 0 &gt; :::t z i_ ( I S\1 N\ I I &gt; K : Ct N , I ` 'I 'll ? ? ? ? ?
''U 77 NV\ " \ I II I __ ? ?
11 ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
; i ?
?a : : : : : : ?
'i('i ?
: ; : : : : ; " ? ? ? ?
?'I ?
; : : ? . ?
: . ? ? ? ? ? . ? . ? ? ? ? ?
: ? .
: tci ; 3 tie : : : : : : : ?
)\5 ' ' : ; : ? . ?
; : : ?
: : ; ?
: ?
:j ? ? ? ? ?
''":r . ? ? ? ?
: ?
; . ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
: . ? ? ? ?
: ? ? ? ?
: : : , ?
, : : : ?
: : ? ? ?
; .
' : ? ? ? ?
: " ?
' ?
I ? .
, . ?
: ' ?
::)I : ' : : : : : 9 ? ? ? ?
: ?
'- ?
: : ? ?
' ?
; ' : ' r I:::i , I II II i , RL G , " ` ' ? . . ? ? ? ? . ? . ? ? ?
?.:i : : : : : : ?
; : : ?
: ?
- : " ?
` : ?
: : ? ? ? ? ?
: .
- ?
: : ?
: : : : : ?
: ; : ?
- ? . . ?
- ?
: ; i -3 4 c ?
: : : : : : ( ?
: : : ; 2 ?
::. .
: : : ' , and deflexion , yet we are not entitled to employ this conjecture in the explanation of phenomena .
7 .
In all the preceding cases of depolarisation , the depolarised image continues visible in every part of the circular motion of the prism of calcareous spar , but there are cases where the vanished image is restored , and again vanishes during the revolution of the prism .
This phenomenon takes place when the polarised pencil is depolarised by transmitting it along the short diagonal of a rhomb of calcareous spar , or along the axis of a hexaedral prism of nitre , or through a parcel of glass plates , or through plates of agate and carbonate of barytes , that give a bright and a nebulous image .
In all these cases only one bright image is produced , so that the images must vanish alternately in every quarter of a revolution , the only effect of the depolarising body being to polarise the light in a different plane , and thus to shift the vanishing place of the images .
Hence it follows that every body which possesses this kind of depolarisation , forms either a bright and a nebulous image , like the agate , or a single image , the light of which is all polarised in the same manner .
I have the honour to be , &amp;c. DAVID BREWSTER .
Edinburgh , October 22 , 814+ .

