Sir David Brewster 's paper , entitled , " On the Anatomical and Optical Structure of the Crystalline Lenses of Animals , being the continuation of the paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833 , " was resumed and concluded .
The author has examined the structure of the crystalline lens of the eye of a great variety of animals belonging to each of the four classes of Vertebrata ; and has communicated in this paper a detailed account of his observations , arranged according as they re ?
late to structures more and more complex .
In a former paper , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833 , the lens of the Cod fish was taken as the type of the simplest of these structures , in as muchas all the fibres of which it is composed converge , like the meridians of aglobe , to two opposite points , or poles , of a spheroid or lenticular solid ; both of which poles are situated in the axis of vision .
The structure which ranks next in respect of simplicity is that exhibited in the Salmon , among fishes ; in the Gecko , among reptiles ; and in the Hare , among Mammalia .
It presents at each pole two septa placed in one continuous line , in different points of which all the fibres proceeding from the one surface to the other have their origin and termination .
A structure somewhat more complex is met with in the lenses of most of the Mammalia , and is particularly exemplified in the iion , the tiger , the horse , and the ox .
Three septa occur at each pole in the form of diverging lines inclined to one another at angles of 120 ? .
The next degree of complexity is presented in the lens of the whale , the seal , and the bear , which contain , instead of three , four septa on each side , placed at right angles to each other in the form of a cross .
In some specimens of lenses of whales and seals the author observed two septa from each pole , forming one continuous line , from each of the extremities of which proceeded two others , which wereat right angles relatively to one another : so that there were in all five on each surface .
The most complex structure is that of the lens of the elephant , which exhibits three primary septa diverging at equal angles from the pole , and at their extremities bifurcating into two additional septa , which are inclined to each other at angles of 60 ?
, these latter being the real septa , to which the fibrous radiations are 'principally related .
In some lenses of the elephant the author found the three septa immediately proceeding from the poles exceedingly short , and approaching to evanescence ?
so that he has no doubt that occasion ?
ally they may be found to have disappeared , and that the other six septa will then all diverge from the poles , like the radii of a hexagon , at angles of 60 ? .
In all the preceding cases , where the arrangement of the fibres is symmetrical on the two sides , the septa on the opposite surface of the lens occupy positions which are reversed with respect to one another ; thus in the simple case of the double septa at each pole , the line formed by those of the posterior surface is situated at right angles to that formed by the septa of the anterior surface .
Where there are three divergent septa at each pole , the direction of those on the one side bisect the angles formed by those on the other side - , and again , where the septa form a rectangular cross , those of one surface are inclined 45 ?
to those of the other surface .
It follows as a consequence of this configuration of the series of points which constitute the origins and terminations of the fibres , that all the fibres , with theexception only of those proceeding in a direct line from the extremities of any of the septa , must , in their passage from the one surface to the other , follow a course more or less contorted ; and must form lines of double curvature ; that is , curves of which none of the portions lie in the same plane .
The fibres of the lenses of quadrupeds gradually diminish in size from the equator or niargin of the lens , where they are largest , to their terminations in the anterior or posterior septa .
They are united together by small teeth like those of fishes - , but , generally speaking , the teeth are smaller and less distinctly pronounced , and sometimes they are not seen without great difficulty .
In the lens of the turtle , as well as in that of several fishes , the arrangement of the fibres , instead of being symmetrical on the two sides , as is the case in all the preceding instances , is different on the anterior and posterior surfaces ; there being two septa on the for ?
mer , but none in the latter , which presents only a single polar point of convergence .
The author has directed much of his attention to the optical properties of these structures .
The lens of the salmon depolarizes three series of luminous sectors ?
the inner and outer series being negative , and the intermediate series positive .
The polarizing structure of the cornea is negative , and it depolarizes very high tints at its junc ?
tion with the sclerotic coat .
When a slice cut from the sclerotica nearly perpendicularly to the surfaces , and with parallel faces , is exposed to polarized light , it exhibits the system of biaxal rectilineal fringes , exactly like those in a plate of glass heated by boiling wa ?
ter or oil , when in the act of rapid cooling .
The same alternation of properties with regard to polarization in the successive strata of the substance of the crystalline lenses is exhibited by other fishes which the author examined .
With respect to the final cause of these highly complicated arrangements , it is reasonable to conceive that the gradually increasing density of the fibres in each successive stratum from the surface to the centre is intended to correct spherical aberration : but the design of the other properties resulting from the arrangement of the fibres with reference to septa , in all their variations of number and position , and more especially the alternations of positive and nega ?
tive structures , as exhibited by the action of the different strata in polarized light , has not even excited the ingenuity of conjecture , and will probably remain among the numerous problems destined to exercise the sagacity of another age .

