X. O0t the communication of the structure og doubly refifacting crystals to glass , muriate of soda , fluor spar , and other substances , by mechanical compression and dilatation .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F. R. S. Lond. and Edin .
In a letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart , G.C.B. P.R.S. Read February 9g , 1816 .
DEAR SIR , NOTWITHSTANDING the numerous discoveries which have lately been made relative to the polarisation of light , and the optical phenomena of crystallized bodies , not a single step has yet been made towards the solution of the great problem of double refraction .
What is the mechanical condition of crystals that form two images and polarise them in different planes ; and what a 're the mechanical changes which must be induced on uncrystallized bodies in order to communicate to them these remarkable properties , are questions which are as difficult to be answered at the present moment , as they were in the days of HUYGHENS and NEWTON .
In the frequent attempts which I have made to obtain a solution of these difficulties , the polarisation of light by oblique refraction was the only phenomenon that seemed to connect itself with the inquiry ; but the hopes of success which this fact inspired , were soon found to be delusive , and the subject resumed its former impregnable aspect .
A new train of experiments , however , has enabled me not only to give a satisfactory answer to the questions which have been stated , but to communicate to glass , and many other substances , by the mere pressure of the hand , all the properties of the different classes of doubly refracting crystals .
The method of producing these effects , and the consequences to which it leads , will be briefly explained in the following letter .
SECT .
I. On the communication of double refraction to glass muriate of soda , and other hard solids .
PROPOSITION I. If the edges of a plate ofglass , which has no action upon polarised light , are pressed together or dilated by any kind of force , it will exhibit distinct neutral and depolarising axes like all doubly refracting crystals , and will separate polarised light into its complementary colours .
The neutral axes are parallel and perpendicular to the direction in which the force is applied , and the depolarising axes are inclined to these at angles of 450 , I took a plate of glass about i inch broad , 23 inches long , and o028 of an inch thick , and having compressed its edges by the force of screws , I found that it polarised a white of the first order in every part of its breadth .
The depolarising axes formed an angle of 45 ?
with the edges of the plate .
By increasing the compressing force , it polarised a faint yellow light of the first order , which gradually rose into orange .
When the screw pressed upon the glass only at a single point , an appearance was exhibited similar to that shown in Fig. i , ( P1 .
IX .
) where AB is a cubical piece of glass pressed in the clamp CDE by means of the screw S. Between the points of pressure m , n , fringes mont , mpn , are developed .
Between A57 Aand o the tint is a white of the first order , passing int yellow at o , then advancing up the scale to r , and descending by similar gradations to B. The effect produced by turning the glass round 45 ?
is shown in Fig. 2 .
If the axis of pressure mn , Fig. 3 , ( P1 .
IX .
) is near one side of a plate of glass AB , an effect is produced at B exactly like the four sets offringes exhibited by crystallized glass .
When the axis of pressure mn is in the middle of a plate A3B , Fig. 4 , ( PL .
IX .
) about 1i inch long , the same effect is produced towards A and B , as if the two .
pieces Ain , Bmn , had been crystallized separately by heat.* I experienced considerable difficulty in applying a dilating force to glass , till I discovered the method described under Proposition III .
PROPOSITION II .
7en a plate of glass is under the inluence of a compressig force its scructure is th same as that of one class of doubly refracting .
crystals , ncludig calcareous spar , beryl , &amp;c. ; but when it is under the inflence of a dilating force , its structre is the sam as that of the other class of doubly refracting cystals , including sulphate of lime , quartz , &amp;c. When a plate of dilated glass was combined with a similar plate of compressed glass , so that the direction of the dilating force coincided with the direction of the compressing force , the difference of their effects was produced , and vice vrsd .
The truth in the Proposition was also established by combining the glass with standard plates of sulphate of lime .
See Phil. Trans. i86 .
p. 90 , fig , 35 , PROPOSITION III .
If a long plate or slip of glass bent by the force of the hand , it exhibts at the same time , the two opposite structures described in the preceding Proposition .
The convex , ordilated sde of the plate affords one set of colouredfr inges , similar to those produced by one class of doubly refracting crystals ; and the concave or compressed side , exhiits another set offringes similar to hose produced by the other class .
These two sets of fringe are separated by a deep black line where here is neither c pression nor dilatation .
This curious result may be obtained by plates of glass of any size , provided they are a few inches in length , but the experiment is more easily made with a long and narrow slip .
When a very small degree of force is employed in bending it , a faint bluish white fringe appears at both edges .
As the force increases , these fringes encroach upon the interjacent black space , and gradually become why , yellr , orange , purple , in digo , blue , green , yellow , &amp;c. till three or four orders of colours are distinctly developed on each side of the black space .
These phenomena are represented in Figs. 5 and 6 .
( P1 .
IX .
) Fig. 5 , shows the effect produced by a very small force , and Fig. 6 , the effect produced by a considerable force .
In one of these experiments , when the plate of glass was 1i inch broad , o.28 thick , and 6 inches between the points of support , I developed by the force of a screw no fewer than 7 orders of colours .
The black fringe was scarcely perceptible , and the white tint arising from the mixture of all the colours , was on the eve of beingproduced when the plate broke in pieces , 159 SCHOLIUM .
The experiments now described , furnish us with a method of rendering visible , and even of measuring the mechanical changes which take place during the compression , dilatation , or bending of transparent bodies .
The tints produced by polarised light are correct ineasures of the compressing and dilating forces , and by employing transparent gums , of ( lierent elasticities , we may ascertain the changes which take place in bodies , before they are either broken or crushed .
The subject , therefore , of the strength of materials , and the cohesion of solids , will derive new lights from the principles already established .
There is one practical application of these views which is particularly deserving of notice .
In order to observe the manner in which stone arches yield to a superincumbent pressure , Dr. RoBIsoN executed.several models in chalk , and deduced many general laws relative to the internal forces by which they were crushed .
If the arch stones of models are made of glass , or any other simply refracting substance , such as gum copal , &amp;c. the intensity and direction of all the forces which are excited by a superincumbent load in different parts of the arch , will be rendered visible by exposing the model to polarised light .
If different degrees of roughness are given to the touching surfaces of the glass voussoirs , the results may be observed for any degree of friction at the joints .
The intensity and direction of the compressing and dilating forces which are excited in loaded framings of carpentry , may be rendered visible in a similar manner .
PROPOSITION IV .
The tints polarised by plates of glass in a state of compressioft or dilatation , ascend in NEWTON'S scale of colours as the forces are increased ; and in the same plate , the tint polarised at any particular part is proportional to the compression or dilatation to which that part is exposed .
We have already seen , in illustrating the preceding Propositions , that higher tints are developed as the forces are increased .
If ABCD , Fig. 7 , ( P1 .
IX .
) is a plate of glass , rendered concave by bending , and mn the black space which separates the dilated portion AB from the compressed portion CD , then if of be the natural distance of the particles of the glass , and ab their distance when dilated at the convex edge AB , cd will represent the distance of two particles situated at c , and the tint at c will be to the tint at a , as cd-ef is to ab-ef ; but cd-eJ'f ab-ef : ec : ea ; and therefore the tints at any part c will be proportional to its distance ce from the limit of compression and dilatation .
The fringes developed on each side of mn have nearly the same breadth , which clearly shows that the tints are proportional to the actual compressions and dilatations .
PROPOSITION V. When compressed and dilated plates of glass are combined transversely and symmetrically , they exhibit all the phenomena zwhich are produced by the combination of plates of doubly rfiractig crystals .
If a plate of compressed glass is con:bined symetricav/ with a similar plate , the tint polarised by the combination is that which is due to the sum of their thicknesses ; but if they are combined transversely , the effect is that which is due to the difference of their thicknesses .
The same is true of plates of dilated glass .
If a plate of compressed glass is combined symmetrically with a plate of dilated glass , the effect is that which is due to the difference of their thicknesses ; while a transverse combination gives an effect due to the sum of their thicknesses .
The action of plates of compressed and dilated glass are regulated by the same laws which M. BIor has investigated for the different classes of doubly refracting crystals .
In order to observe the effects of crossing plates of glass that possess both structures , I took a stiff bar of iron AB , Fig. 8 .
, ( PI .
IX .
) and placed upon it the glass plate CD , which was separated from the iron by the supports E , F ; and by means of the screw S , I kept it in such a bent state , that it exhibited the fringes shown in Fig. 5 .
( P1 .
IX .
) When this plate was crossed by another similar plate at right angles , the intersectional figure had the form shown at Fig. 9 .
( P1 .
IX .
) At the angles o , p , where the dilated portions cross the compressed portions , the colours rise in the scale , and the maximum tints of each plate are exactly doubled at the angular point ; but at the other angle m , n , where the dilated portion of the one , crosses the dilated portion of the other , or where the compressed portions cross each other , the tints of the one plate are counteracted by those of the other , and therefore a black fringe mn , extends across the diagonal of the intersectional figure .
When a plate of bent glass is crossed by a plate of glass crystallized by heat , as shown in Fig. lo , ( P1 .
IX .
) it produces an intersectional figure which can easily be determinled a priori , and which is exactly one half of the intersectional figure that would be produced by crossing AB with another plate of crystallized glass , having the same tints as CD in its four sets of fringes .
PROPOSITION VI .
If a plate of glass resting on two supports , is bent by any force applied between the points of support , the tints are a maximum at the part where the pressure is applied , and ascend gradually in the scale of colours towards the points of support .
I took a plate of glass ABCD , Fig. i , ( P1 .
IX .
) six inches long , ibroad , and o.28 thick , and having placed its extremities upon the points of support C , D , I bent it by a screw applied to the surface at M. Seven orders of colours were now distinctly seen on each side of the black fringe in the section Mm .
In the sections i.i , the first order of colours only was developed ; between the sections i 1 , and 2 2 , the second order of colours appeared , and so on with the succeeding orders , till the seventh was seen near Mm .
SCHOLIUM .
It follows from the preceding experiments , that the mechanical contractions and dilatations at the points , i , 2 , $ , 4 , 5 , 6 , are as the numbers , 7l , 13 ' ' 22 , 293 , 38 , 45k , the values of the corresponding tints in NEWTON'S scale.* PROPOSITION VII .
If a plate of glass is subject to ; compressions or dilatations exerted in different directions , the same effects are produced as when separate plates infuenced by the same forces are combined in a similar manner .
I took a plate of glass AB , Fig. 1e , ( P1 .
IX .
) and having compressed its extremity A by means of the screw S , a bright white of the first order emerged from the points of pressure P , Q. By a force applied at B , I now bent the glass so as to make the lower side concave , and to produce the white tints on each side of the interjacent black space m , n. The effects of bending were now combined towards m , with the effects of compression , so that in the line mo , a black fringe appeared , the compressed structure produced by bending having acted in opposition to the compressed structure produced by the screw S ; while in the line mp , a yellow tint emerged , the dilated structure produced by bending , acting in conjunction with the compressed structure produced by the screw .
These results will appear perfectly conformable to Prop. V. , when we consider that the axis of compression produced by the screw is PQ , while the axis of compression and dilatation produced by bending is parallel to m n , and consequently at right angles to PQ .
PROPOSITION VIII .
If two plates of bent glass are placed together at their concave or compressed edges , the compoundplate has exactly the sane properties as a plate of glass transiently orpermanently crystallized by heat , which gives the usual series offringes .
But if the two plates are placed together at their convex or dilated edges , the compound plate has the same properties as plates of glass transiently crystallized by heat , which produce the unusual series offringes .
The plates described in the Proposition exhibit the same intersectional figures as the plates of crystallized glass , and have in every respect the same action upon polarised light .
PROPOSITION IX .
If the compressing and dilating forces are applied to the centre of a plate of glass , the principal axes of the particles will be directed to the point of compression or dilatation , and the glass will exhibit the black cross , and the other phenomena which are seen in doubly refracting crystals .
Having procured a strong lens of considerable convexity , I pressed it by means of a screw upon the centre of a plate of glass .
When exposed to polarised light , it exhibited the appearance shown in Fig. 13 , ( PI .
IX .
) where ABCD is part of the lens , and m , n , o , p , four rectangular sectors , separated by a black cross .
When the pressure is increased , different tints and fringes are developed , as in crystallized bodies .
PROPOSITION X. If a plate of glass in a state of compression or dilatation is inclined to the polarised ray in a plane parallel to the axis of dilatation and compression , the tints will descend in the scale ; but if they are inclined in aplane at right angles to these axes , the tints will ascend .
This result was obtained by the inclination of plates compressed by screws , and of plates compressed and dilated by bending .
PROPOSITION XI .
If a plate of glass that has already received the doubly refracting structure from heat , is exposed to compression , the tints of the interiorfringes rise in the scale , and those of the exteriorfringes descend , when the axis of pressure is perpendicular to the direction of the fringes ; the opposite effect being produced by a dilating force .
The same results are in this case obtained as if an uncrystallized plate similarly compressed or dilated , had been similarly combined with the crystallized plate .
I took a plate of crystallized glass , which displayed in the middle fringes a blue of the second order , and having compressed it by a screw in a direction perpendicular to the fringes , the tint of the interior set rose to the red of the second order , while that of the exterior set descended in the scale .
When the plate was pressed in a direction perpendicular to the fringes , the tint of the interior set descended to a faint yellow , and that of the exterior set rose in a similar proportion .
When a piece of crystallized glass is bent by a screw , as in Fig. 8 , ( PI .
IX .
) the exterior fringes on the upper or concave side increase in number and encroach on the interior fringes ; but on the lower or convex side , the fringes diminish in number , and are encroached upon by the interior fringes .
Uncrystallized plates , when compressed or dilated , exhibit similar effects if combined with crystallized plates not subjected to conipression or dilatation .
PROPOSITION XII .
Muriate of soda , fluor spar , diamond , obsidian , semi-opal , born , tortoise-shell , amber , gum copal , caoutchouc , rosin , phosphorus , the indurated ligament of the chama gigantea , and other substances , that have not the property of double refraction , or that have it in an imperfect manner , * are capable of receiving it by compression or dilatation .
Of all the substances mentioned in the Proposition , obsidian , .
muriate of soda , and gum copal , receive from pressure the greatest polarising force .
Gum copal , in particular , exhibited a greater number of fringes than a piece of glass subjected to the same pressure .
PROPOSITION XIII .
Calcareous spar , rock crystal , topaz , beryl , and other minerals that already possess in a high degree the doubly refracting structure , suffer no change by compression or dilatation .
The state of compression or dilatation in which the particles of these crystals are already placed , according to the class in which they belong , is so great , as not to experience any change from the application of ordinary forces .
I have applied in the direction both of their neutral and depolarising axes , forces so great as to break the shoulders of all the clamps that.were employed .
PROPOSITION XIV .
To construct a chromatic dynamometerfor measuring the intensity of forces .
In almost every dynamometer , which has hitherto been constructed , it is assumed that a steel spring recovers its original shape after repeated bendings , and upon this assumption the scale of the instrument is formed.* The perfect elasticity of glass , however , renders it , in this respect , a much fitter substance than steel , and though it does not admit of such a great change of shape , yet the slightest variations in its structure can be rendered visible .
If a number of narrow and thilck plates of glass AB , Fig. 14 , ( P1 .
IX .
) are firmly fixed at each end in brass caps A , B ; then if any force is applied to a ring at C in the middle of the plates , when the ends A and B are fixed , or if C is fixed , and the force applied at the points A , B , the plates of glass will be bent in the middle , and the force by which this is produced , will be measured by the tints that appear on each side of the black space mn .
By diminishing the length of the plates , or increasing their number , they may be made to resist and to measure any degree of force .
When the force to be ascertained is small , a single plate of glass will enable usi to measure its intensity with great exactness .
PROPOSITION XV .
If a parallelopiped of glass is enclosed on all sides , except two , in a mass of fluid metal , the contractions and dilatations which the metal experiences in passing to a state of permanent solidity , zwill be rendered visible by the communication of the doubly refracting structure to the glass .
I took a cylinder of tin plate AB , Fig. 5 , ( P1 .
X. ) open at both ends , and having placed a piece of glass CDEF on its lower edge OF , I surrounded it with melted lead .
As soon as the lead lost its fluidity I exposed it to a polarised ray , and found that the glass exhibited no colour .
As the metal contracted in its dimensions , there appeared a bluish white tint , which gradually rose through all the tints of the first order , and reached the red of the second order , when plunged in a freezing mixture .
The same result was obtained when the glass was surrounded by tin ; but when it was encased in the fusible.metal , consisting of eleven parts of bismuth , three of lead , and five of tin , it exhibited after cooling the same tints as if it had been dilated .
In order to examine this point with greater care , I exposed the glass to a polarised ray as soon as the fusible metal was fixed .
It then displayed no tints whatever , but as the cooling advanced , a tint appeared which rose to a yellow of the first order , as if the glass were highly compressed .
At a certain teniperature , however , the tints gradually diminished , and passed into the opposite tints produced by dilatation .
Hence it follows , that after the fusible metal has assumed the solid state , it contracts its dimensions , and at a certain temperature is again expanded .
ni ; DCCCXI .
2 i6( ) When the fusible metal assumed a settled state , I was surprised to observe , that the tint over its surface CD , Fig. 16 , ( P1 .
X. ) was not uniform , but had a curved black space mno , which enclosed a faint tint belonging to a compressed structure , while the other part had a faint yellow tint belonging to a dilated structure .
This appearance arose from the piece of glass CD not being placed in the middle of the tin cylinder as shown in the figure .
The distance Ee was o.74 of an inch , while Ffwas 0.97 , and as the dilating force was greater in the direction fF than in the opposite direction eE , and the resistances unequal , a slight concavity would take place at e , and produce the black space , and the two opposite structures .
SCHOLIUM The results contained in this Proposition lead to the construction of new instruments for measuring the contraction and dilatation of all substances whatever , whether they are produced by variations in their temperature , or in their humidity .
Hence we obtain measures also of the degrees of temperature and humidity by which these mechanical changes are produced .
A plate of glass enclosed in metal , as shown in Fig. 15 , ( P1 .
X. ) forms a chromatic thermometer different from the one I have described in a former paper.* In the present instru , meant , the tints are produced by the difference of pressures upon the glass , occasioned by the difference of expansions arising from changes of temperature ; whereas , in the other instrument , the tints originate immediately from the changes of temperature .
The exterior case of the thermometer repree Phil. Trals , 1816 , p 108 , 17o sented by AB in Fig. 17 , ( PI .
X. ) may even be made of iron , brass , or any other metal that is not easily fused .
And when this ring is brought to a high degree of heat , fluid lead , or tin , may be poured into the centre of it , so as to be immediately in contact with the piece of glass CD .
A chromatic hygrometer may be constructed by surrounding a piece of glass with a mass of any hygrometric substance , that readily absorbs moisture .
This substance may be advantageously enclosed in a piece of glass or earthen ware , perforated in different places to admit the air freely .
Instead of measuring the direct pressure occasioned by contraction or expansion , the magnitude of the scale would be increased by employing these forces to bend a long slip of glass , as in Fig. 18 , ( P1 .
X. ) where AB is the glass resting against fixed supports A , B , and CD a mass of lead , or a hygrometric substance , resisted by the support E F , and altering the curvature of AB , by its contractions or dilatations .
If the expanding mass CD Fig. 19 , ( P1 .
X. ) is made to act on the two extremities , A , B of the glass plate fixed at the middle M , it may sometimes be concave towards C , and sometimes convex , and the limit between these two states may be taken for the zero of the scale .
174 ' SECT .
II .
On the communication of double refraction either transiently orpermanently to animal jellies by gradual induration , and by mechanical compression and dilatation .
PROPOSITION I. When a plate of animal jelly , either approaching to fuidity , or in a state of high elasticity is compressed or dilated , it possesses the same opticalproperties as compressed or dilated glass .
It would be unnecessary labour to detail the numerous experiments by which I obtained from animal jellies , the various results descriBled in the preceding Section.* I shall , therefore , content myself with pointing out a very simple method by which the experiments may be easily repeated .
Let a parallelopiped of isinglass OF , Fig. o2 , ( P1 .
X. ) newly coagulated , be cemented by isinglass of the same consistency to two plates of glass AB , CD .
By forcing the plates together , so as to compress the jelly , various orders of colours will be developed at m n , having the same character as the external fringes of crystallized glass .
When the pressure is removed , two black fringes meet , as it were , at m n , and upon separating the plates , so as to dilate the jelly , another set of fringes will appear at m n , having a character opposite to that of the other fringes .
If we force the plates together obliquely , so ax to form an angle , and thus compress the jelly on one side , and dilate it on the other , the two opposite sets of fringes will be distinctly seen .
When the plates are pressed together with such force as to ?
See Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 6Q .
where I have given an account of the discovery of this property of animal jellies , destroy the structure of the mass , the different tints are arranged like those of the finest variegated marble , an effect exactly similar to what I have observed in numerous specimens of the diamond , and also in mixtures of rosin and white wax .
By bringing the jelly into such a state that it is capable of being bent ; by coagulating it in glass troughs ; by applying dilating and compressing forces to a central point ; and by stretching it in tliin elastic films over plates of compressed or dilated glass , a number of interesting results will be obtained .
PROPOSITION II .
If a parallelopiped ofjelly is allowed to indurate by exposure to the air , it will acquire at its edges a variable density , similar to that produced by pressure , and its edges will act upon light like doubly refracting crystals .
Having poured some melted isinglass into a glass trough , and exposed it sometime after to polarised light , I observed a narrow and faint bluish stripe of the first order , on looking through the upper stratum .
After a lapse of six hours , the tint became a brilliant white of the first order , and the stratum of jelly had depolarising axes inclined 45 ?
to its length .
In order to examine the mechanical change which the stratum had Utndergone , I looked through it at a small circular aperture .
This aperture was elliptical , and its ellipticity gradually increased as the pencil passed nearer to the surface of the indurated stratum .
Hence it follows , that the depolarising structure was produced or accompanied by a difference of density .
173 PROPOSITION III .
If a plate of jelly partially indurated , is kept in a slate of compression or dilatation till the induration is completed , it will acquire permanently the structure of doubly refiacting crystals .
I experienced considerable difficulty in endeavouring to fix a plate of jelly in a state of permanent distension .
The first process which was successful , consisted of taking a plate of isinglass , and allowing its two extremities to indurate , while the intermediate part was kept moist between two plates of glass .
The isinglass was suspended by one of its indurated extremities , and dilated by a weight hanging from the other .
In this distended state it exhibited very brilliant fringes , and it preserved the same property when it was completely hardened .
In order to obtain more perfect specimens , and a greater variety of form sI poured fluid isinglass into troughs of different shapes made either of glass or of soft porous wood .
The effect produced by transmitting polarised light perpendicularly through one of these troughs , is shown in Fig. 2l .
( P1 .
X. ) ; and when the plate was inclined in the direction AB , it had the appearance shown in Fig , 22 .
( P1 .
X. ) After standing another day it exhibited , at a vertical incidence , the fringes shown in Fig. 23 , ( P1 .
X. ) where Am D , B mC , are the black spaces , and E , F , G , H , the tints of the first order of colours extending to the indigo of the second order ; but by inclining the plate in the direction AB , the dark spaces Am D , Bm C ' approximated at the points m , n , till they met and formed a black space as in Fig. 21 .
( P1 .
X. ) By continuing the inclination , the black space opened , and gradually developed the black spaces , and the colours shown ill Fig. 24 , ( P1 .
X. ) the fringes between A and D , and B and C having ascended in the scale , while those between A and B and D and C had descended .
At the end of other two days , three distinct orders of colours were developed ; but when the isinglass had detached itself from the glass bottom of the trough , the tints again descended to the state in which they are represented in Fig. 24 .
( P1 .
X. ) This descent of the tints will be understood from Fig. 25 , 26 , 27 .
( P1 .
X. ) In virtue of the capillary attraction of the sides of the trough AB , the fluid jelly rises up at the angles a , b , and being there speedily hardened from its thinness , it adheres firmly to the sides of the trough .
As the process of induration advances , the plate of isinglass is gradually detached from the glass bottom , at the corners m , n , Fig. 26 , ( P1 .
X. ) but still adheres firmly at the middle c. Hence the isinglass is in a state of great distension between c and a , and c and b , and consequently developes several orders of colours .
But when the isinglass separates from the glass bottom at c , which .
it almost always does , it takes the position shown in Fig. 27 , ( P1 .
X. ) where the distension has obviously suffered a great diminution , and consequently the tints must descend in the scale .
The adhesion at c is sometimes so strong that the isinglass carries up a portion of the glass along with it .
The combined effect of induration and distension in a narrow glass trough is shown in Fig. 28 , ( P1 .
X , ) which represents one half of the trough .
The narrow fringe produced from induration is shown at A nm n and B op , and the tints developed 175 in the middle are the same as those marked in the figure .
When this plate was inclined in the plane AC , the following results were obtained ; but from the inequalities of the plate the measures must be very rude .
A red of the first order , Violet , Blue , Green , Yellow , Pink red , Blue , Green of the third order .
Angle of incidence from the perpendicular .
15 28 _ 34 54 6i 71 PRaPOSITION IV .
The potarising force of distended isinglass exceeds that of beryl , and is far greater than that of glass , uwhether it has received the doubly refracting structure from heat or from pressure .
A soft film of isinglass 'j of an inch thick , developed by dilatation a blue of the second order , when it broke .
Another film -5 of an inch thick was brought nearly to a state of induration .
When it was dilated , which was done with some difficulty , it polarised distinctly the bright red of the second order .
A third film , about 4 of an inch , and prepared after the manner described in Proposition III , polarised a red of the fifth order .
By comparing this tint , which is higher than any of the rest , with a thickness of a plate of glass which gives the same tint , we shall find that the constant factor by which we must multiply the thickness of any plate of jelly , in order to obtain the thickness of a thin plate which would afford by reflection a tint similar to its maximum tint , is.-~ .
The following are the constant factors for different doubly refracting substances .
Calcareous spar , Rock crystal , cori Sulphate of lime , BT .
Mica , ^ Isinglass Beryl , according to BIOT .
Glass , ~8 If the isinglass were made capable of resisting a higher degree of distension it would give a constant factor , approaching still nearer to that of mica .
Upon reviewing the general principles contained in the preceding Propositions , I cannot but allow myself to hope that they will be considered as affording a direct solution of the most important part of the Problem of double refraction .
The mechanical condition of both classes of doubly refracting crystals , and the method of communicating to uncrystallized bodies the optical properties of either class , have been distinctly ascertained , and the only phenomenon which remains unaccounted for , is the division of the incident light into two oppositely polarised pencils .
How far this part of the subject will come within the pale of experimental inquiry , I do not presume to determine ; but without wishing to damp that ardour of research which has been so happily directed towards this branch of optics , I fear that , as in the case of electrical and magnetical polarity ) we must remain satisfied with refer refraction , &amp;c. ring the polarisation of the two pencils to the operation of some peculiar fluid .
The new property of radiant heat which enables it to communicate double refraction to a distant part of a plate of glass , where the heat does not reside in a sensible state ; the existence of a moveable polarity in glass , whether the doubly refracting structure is communicated transiently or permanently ; -and the appearance of regular cleavages varying with the direction of the axes of double refraction , are facts which render it more than probable that a peculiar fluid is the principal agent in producing all the phenomena of crystallization and double refraction .
There is one fact , however , which forms a fine connection between the aberration of the extraordinary ray and the principles established in this Paper .
It has been demonstrated by an eminent English philosopher , * that every undulation must assume a spheroidal form when propagated through a minutely stratified substance , in which the density is greater in one direction than another , and I have proved by experiment that such a substance actually possesses the property of double refraction .
This singular coincidence will no doubt be regarded as an argument in favour of the undulatory system .
I have the honour to be , &amp; cO DAVID BREWSTER .
To the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G. C.B. P. R. S. e c. R c. Vc .

