On new Properties of .
Light exhibited in the optical Phenomena of Mother-of-Pearl , and other Bodies to which the superficial structure of that Substance can be communicated .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. iEdin .
and F.S.A. Ed. In a Letter addressed to the Right LHon .
Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read April 28 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 397 .
] The first section of this paper is devoted to the optical properties peculiar to mother-of-pearl ; the second to the communication of these properties to other bodies ; the third to the consideration of the cause of these phenomena ; and the fourth to the description of the peculiar species of polarization produced by this substance .
Dr , Brewster observes , mother-of-pearl is composed of laminme , much resembling in their arrangement those of the agate ; that when it is imperfectly polished , a coloured image of a candle is seen in it by reflection in the neighbourhood of the common image , having its blue extremity towards this image , and being always situated , with respect to it , in the direction of an axis of extraordinary reflection , the angular distance varying with the inclination and situation of the rays , and being also different in magnitude in different specimens , but always observing certain laws .
There is also a mass of coloured light , crimson at great angles of incidence , and green at smaller , beyond the regular coloured image , its distance varying according to a different law ; becoming brighter when the substance is polished , and varying also with its thickness .
Similar appearances are observed in a surface obtained by fracture ; but a higher polish produces a new coloured image on the opposite side of the common image , and nearly as bright as the former , which is rendered somewhat less brilliant by the operation of polishing .
Similar appearances , but somewhat less distinct , are observed when a candle is viewed through a thin piece of mother-of-pearl ; and it is remarkable , that the image which is the brighter when seen by reflection , is the less bright when seen by transmission .
When the opposite surfaces happen to have different axes of extraordinary reflection , they produce the appearance of four images in the transmitted light .
Dr. Brewster having had occasion to fix a piece of mother^.of-pearl , by a hard ceiment , to a goniometer , was much surprised to find that the cement had acquired properties , with respect to colour , nearly similar to those of the mother-of-pearl ; and he afterwards succeeded in producing the same effect with black and red wax , balsam of Tolu , gum arabic , gold leaf placed on wax , tin foil , fusible metal , and realgar ; and , by meansof pressure , withlead ; the appearances exhibited bythese substances varying also , like that of the mother-of-pearl , from which they were derived , according to the degree of polish .
But the mass ; of crimson and green light never accompanies these appearances : and , on the other hand , it is produced by mother-of-pearl , even when its reflection is destroyed by the contact of a substance of equal refractive density ; so that it appears to depend on the internal constitution of the mother-of-pearl .
The colours seen by transmission are more brilliant in gum arabic which has received the impression , than in the original substance , on account of the difference of transparency ; and the refractive density of the substance employed for the impression does not appear to have influenced the magnitude of the dispersion , as exhibited by the coloured images .
Pearls also were found to communicate their properties to other substances in a similar manner , the principal image being surrounded with a nebulosity , which is observable in an impression on wax .
Hence Dr. Brewster very naturally inferred that the peculiar phenomena of mother-of-pearl are , owing to a particular configuration of its surface ; and he had the satisfaction to find this inference fully confirmed by microscopical researches .
The surfaces are almost always visibly grooved , so as somewhat to resemble the skin of the fingers : the grooves are sometimes perceptible to the naked eye , but sometimes too fine to be discoNvered even with magnifying powers of 300 or 400 times , and no polishing can remove or modify them .
Sometimes 3000 of them may be counted in an inch , while in another part of the same specimen they become much coarser ; and a corresponding appearance may be detected in the substances which have received the impression .
The axis of extraordinary reflection is always perpendicular to the direction of these grooves .
Dr. Brewster thinks that the general reflection by which the common image is formed , is the effect of the repulsive force of the whole surface , acting at such a distance , that its irregularities do not interfere with the equality of the angles of incidence and reflection ; but that which has escaped this reflection is subjected to the influence of the grooves , the form of which , as he shows from the phenomena , must be curvilinear .
The spectra do not resemble those which are produced by ordinary inflection , and which are observed in circumstances materially different .
Dr. Brewster has in vain attempted to obtain coloured impressions from the Labrador spar , and from several of the metallic oxides : he finds that the crimson and green light of the mother-of-pearl are dependent on its thickness , like the colours which are seen in the common thin plates , but that they appear at much greater thicknesses .
The last peculiarity which the author has found in this interesting substance , is the manner of its polarizing light .
In crystallized bodies , two portions of light are differently polarized with respect to the direction of the plane of incidence ; but here the transmitted and reflected light are polarized in the same direction .
The polarization is the most complete when the angle of incidence is about 60 ?
, and when the thickness is about one fortieth of an inch ; the transmitted light is in this case wholly polarized .
If the plate is thicker , the transmitted light is wholly polarized at a smaller angle of incidence ; and this polarization remains unaltered when the superficial reflection is destroyed by the contact of a substance of equal refractive density .
Dr. Brewster concludes with observing , that the subject is far from being exhausted ; and that if the investigation could be carried on with the aid of analogous phenomena , we might confidently look forwards to some great change in the fundamental principles of physical optics .

