November 30 , 1853 .
At the Anniversary Meeting , The EARL OF ROSSE , K.P. , M.A. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. Grove , on the part of the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts , announced that the total receipts , during the past year , including a balance of ?
182 Os .
ld .
carried from the account of the preceding year , amounted to ?
84791 12s .
ld .
; and that the total expenditure , including an investment of ?
1367 10s .
Od .
in the Funds , was ?
3784 14s .
6d .
, leaving a balance in the hands of the Treasurer of ?
1006 17s .
7d .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
List of Fellows deceased since the last Anniversary .
On the Home List .
The Earl of Brownlow .
Admiral Sir George Cockburn .
Col. Colquhoun .
Bransby Blake Cooper , Esq. Sir George Gibbes .
Thomas Gordon , Esq. Robert James Graves , M.D. Rev. Henry Hasted .
John Hawkins , Esq. Col. Jackson .
Captain Johnson , R.N. The Lord Bishop of Lincoln .
Captain Napier , R.N. Edward William Pendarves , Esq. Jonathan Pereira , M.D. The Dean of Peterborough .
Henry Barn Sawbridge , Esq. George Poulett Scrope , Esq. Sir William Smith .
John Robert Stewart , Esq. Lieut. Stratford , R.N. Hugh Edwin Strickland , Esq. Rt. Hon. Sir Edward Thornton .
Rev. Charles Turnor .
Frederick Webb , Esq. On the Foreign List .
Franqois Jean Dominique Arago .
I Baron Leopold von Buch .
List of Fellows elected since the last Anniversary .
On the Home List .
James Apjohn , M.D. Joseph Beete Jukes , Esq. John George Appold , Esq. Robert MacAndrew , Esq. John Allan Broun , Esq. Charles Manby , Esq. Antoine Jean Fran9ois Claudet , The Viscount Palmerston .
Esq. Joseph Prestwich , Esq. Edward J. Cooper , Esq , WilliamJohnMacquorn Rankine , E. Frankland , Esq. Esq. John Hall Gladstone , Esq. William Wilson Saunders , Esq. The Earl of Granville .
William Spottiswoode , Esq. The Earl of Harrowby .
Count P. de Strzeleki .
Captain Edward Inglefield , R.N. The President then addressed the Society as follows : GENTLEMEN , I AM happy that it is in my power again to congratulate you on the progress made in the researches which have been carried on , aided by the Grant the Government have placed at your disposal : after an experience of more than three years we may say with confidence that much has been accomplished .
At first there were some misgivings : continental experience was not altogether relied upon .
Although it had been very much the practice of foreign governments to take an active part in encouraging the pursuit of science , and with decided success , here the smallest effort in that direction was looked upon by some as an experiment little harmonising with our institutions , our feelings , perhaps our prejudices , and only to be followed by failure and disappointment .
It was feared that because occasionally there had been some difficulty in employing effectively the small fund which had been bequeathed to us , that therefore there would be increased difficulty in employing a larger fund ; and this no doubt would have happened if there had been restrictions limiting the application of the larger fund to certain specific objects , or if the field of discovery had been of limited extent : the reverse however was the case .
Your Council were not embarrassed by any unwise restrictions , and in science there is room for every one .
It is one of the deductions of economic science that labour creates a demand for labour ; in fact , that where a community is industrious , and labour accumulates and becomes capital , that there the people will be fully employed : the same is true in the inductive sciences , and it is true universally ; there no modifying causes interfere to diminish the force , or limit the application of the great principle , and we see strikingly that as facts accumulate , and facts are the capital of inductive science , fresh employment is everywhere provided for those who are willing to work .
Take any one of the inductive sciences as an example , and we at once see how this is .
Take for instance chemistry , compare it as it now is with what it was when Priestley commenced his career .
The whole of the science then consisted of an imperfect knowledge of the properties of a few of the metals , of sulphur , phosphorus , and the three alkalies as they were then called .
There was a little known also about salts and acids , and the existence of hydrogen and carbonic acid gas had recently been ascertained .
In a range so limited there was little room but for one master mind , when Priestley discovered oxygen , and at once an opening was made for researches into the nature of the atmosphere , of water , and of combustion , of the acids and the alkalies , and ample employment was provided for a host of distinguished philosophers for years to come .
Other important discoveries were soon made , each becoming as it were a new origin of light , throwing perhaps at first but feeble rays upon the objects around us , but revealing so much of their strange forms as to excite curiosity , and awaken the strongest passion of the human mind , the desire to discover the truth .
Inorganic chemistry was then rapidly becoming a great science , when the foundations of organic chemistry were laid in a succession of brilliant discoveries .
That was but a few years ago , but there were many men then ready trained for the work , and the progress was proportionally rapid .
To take a few of the discoveries in organic chemistry , and show how each has been the germ of others , as it were the first term of a diverging series , and thus to exhibit the great principle at work that in science labour creates a demand for labour , might perhaps be of some interest , but it would lead me from the object which I have in view , which is simply to point out the grounds upon which I have ever felt a strong conviction , that whatever means were placed at the disposal of the Royal Society , no lasting difficulty could occur in turning them to useful account .
During the last year considerable progress has been made by Mr. Hopkins in the important experiments which he has been carrying on in conjunction with Mr. Fairbairn and Mr. Joule .
You no doubt are aware , that , as we descend below the surface of the earth , it has been found that the temperature increases : numerous experiments made in different places with all the necessary precautions to guard against fallacy , seem clearly to have established the fact .
The increase is about one degree of Fahrenheit for a depth of from 50 to 60 feet .
If therefore the conducting power of the materials of the globe was the same at all depths , we should have a series , which would give us the depth proportional to every required temperature .
Reasoning in this way , we conclude that a temperature higher than that of melting iron exists at a depth of thirty miles , and that at double that depth the materials of the surface of the globe , combined as we find them in nature , would enter into fusion .
It has therefore been supposed by many that the solid crust beneath our feet is not more than f6rty or fifty miles thick .
It has however been assumed that the increasing pressure at increasing depths does not alter either the conducting power of materials , or the temperature at which they melt .
This no doubt is to a certain extent incorrect , and it is highly probable that the conducting power of the different strata increases considerably with the depth , the materials becoming more compact under augmented pressure .
It is not improbable also that pressure may raise the temperature of fluidity .
In either case the solid crust of the globe would be thicker than it had been supposed to be on the assumed data .
With the view of throwing light upon this question so interesting to all geologists , Mr. Hopkins undertook , with the assistance of Mr. Fairbairn and Mr. Joule , to subject various substances under different temperatures to enormous pressure .
Considerable time was required , even with Mr. Fairbairn 's unlimited mechanical means , to construct the necessary apparatus ; however , recently it has been completed , and in the few substances examined it has been found that the temperature of fusion has increased with the pressure : in the case of wax , by a pressure of 13,000 pounds to the square inch , the fusing-point was raised 300 ? .
Whatever may be the influence of these experiments as affecting the great questions of Terrestrial Physics , we may predict with certainty that data will be obtained most valuable in philosophical research .
Mr. Joule , I find , has been actively engaged , in conjunction with Professor Thomson , in his experiments on the thermal effects of fluids in motion , and has determined with considerable accuracy , operating on a great scale , the depression of temperature when compressed air escapes into the atmosphere through a porous plug .
The laws of the phenomena as to the temperature and pressure of the confined gas , will also soon be determined .
Carbonic acid gas has been found to give a depression of four and a half times as great as atmospheric air , while it passes through the porous plug with greater facility than atmospheric air ; equal volumes requiring pressures of 1 and 1'05 respectively in order to be transmitted in equal times .
Certain heating effects of air rushing through a single orifice have been observed , which will probably lead to a further development of the mechanical theory of the temperature of elastic fluids in rapid motion .
The examination of the sedimentary deposits in the Nile valley , mentioned at the last Anniversary , is still going on .
MJr .
Horner states , that by the munificent aid of His Highness Abbas Pacha , the Viceroy of Egypt , a series of operations have been carried on at Heliopolis , and at another station thirteen miles above Cairo , which have led to interesting results .
A pit has been sunk to the depth of 24 feet below the pedestal of the colossal statue of Ramses the Second , who reigned , according to the chronology of Bunsen , about 1400 years before Christ , and borings have been continued by which cylinders of soil have been extracted at an additional depth of 48 feet .
A series of thirty-two pits has been sunk across the valley in a line between the Libyan and Arabian deserts , occupying a line of about five miles , passing through the site of the statue alluded to ; and it is proposed to sink a similar line of pits next year about twenty miles lower down the river , passing through the site of the obelisk of Heliopolis .
Above sixty persons were employed in the operations at Memphis .
The plan , as proposed by Mr. Horner , was , through the intervention of the Hon. Charles Augustus Murray , Her Majesty 's late Consul-General in Egypt , submitted to the Viceroy , and met with the most ready acceptance .
He gave directions to his government that every assistance should be afforded for carrying on the proposed researches ; he appointed an able engineer officer high in his service , M. Hekekyan Bay , to conduct them , and ordered that the whole expense should be defrayed by his government .
Such enlightened liberality on the part of His Highness Abbas Pacha justly entitles him to the gratitude of all cultivators of science .
The other researches alluded to on the last occasion are proceeding satisfactorily , but there is nothing which seems to call for especial notice at present ; I will therefore at once proceed to give some account of the steps which have been taken by your Council for the advancement of science in another direction .
In the history of individual sciences we perceive there have been always successive periods of activity and repose .
In Astronomy , for many years we have had a period of activity .
Physical Astronomy has achieved perhaps its greatest triumph within the last few years in the discovery of Neptune ; and the discovery of the numerous Asteroids and Comets is evidence that Practical Astronomy has kept pace with it .
Within the same period the nebulous contents of the Southern Hemisphere have for the first time been made known to us ; we have now a catalogue of the highest excellence , with an ample guarantee for its accuracy in the zeal , ability , and experience of Sir John Herschel .
That catalogue will be a record for future ages , leading probably to the detection of change in the wonderful objects revealed by the telescope , and so giving a clue to the mysterious laws which rule the remote universe .
The Cape observations were not long before the world when some astronomers expressed a desire that it should not be left to posterity to turn them to account , but that some effort should be made .
to employ them in the service of the present generation .
It was suggested , that with such an admirable working list , much might be effected ina short time .
A comparison of the Northern and Southern catalogues had led many to believe that the same instrument had effected more in the Southern than in the Northern Hemisphere .
Whethel that had been owing to a better atmosphere , or whether the objects themselves were more remarkable , in either case it was reasonable to expect that an instrument of great power would do more in a well-selected situation in the Southern Hemisphere than in these islands ; and on that account alone there seemed to be grounds for a well-founded hope that interesting discoveries would be made ; but there were other grounds .
In the present state of Nebular Astronomy , the best prospect we have of extending our knowledge , seems to be by carefully sketching and measuring every object sufficiently within reach of our instruments , to make details discernible .
It is highly probable that the objects we see are presented to us in every variety of position , that they often differ in form merely because we see them in a different aspect , and that if all were similarly placed as to the line of sight , a few normal forms would represent the whole .
If this is the case , had we a sufficient number of accurate sketches , it is probable that out of the apparent confusion we should succeed in extracting the normal forms .
It is also probable that in the nebular systems motion exists .
If we see a system with a distinct spiral arrangement , all analogy leads us to conclude that there has been motion , and that if there has been motion that it still continues .
The apparent motion is probably very slow , owing to the immense distance of the nebulae ; still there are double stars known to be physically double from their motions , which are probably as distant as some of the nebulae .
In certain nebule stars are so peculiarly situated that we can scarcely doubt their connection with the nebular system in which we see them , and some of these stars are as bright as some of the stars known to be physically double ; as bright even as some of the stars which the latest Pulkowa observations have shown to have sensible parallax , and whose distance therefore is approximately known .
We have therefore some vague idea , resting on probable evidence , even of the distance of the nearest nebulae .
It seems therefore not unreasonable to expect that measurements perseveringly carried on will detect motion , and that a fulcrum will thus be obtained , by which the powers of analysis may be brought to bear upon the laws which govern these mysterious systems .
In the northern catalogue of Nebule , and the same observation no doubt applies to the southern also , there are vast numbers much too faint to be sketched , or measured , with any prospect of advantage ; the most powerful instruments we possess , showing in them nothing of an organized structure , but merely a confused mass of nebulosity of varying brightness .
The number of nebula in the northern hemisphere , in which details are well brought out , is not very large , and even in these , a great proportion of the measurements are necessarily rough , and wanting in that precision by which the motion of certain double stars was so soon detected .
It is evident therefore that to obtain a true knowledge of the forms of the nebular systems , our sketches must be as numerous as possible ; and to obtain evidence of motion with rough measures , our measures should be very numerous also ; but the northern hemisphere presents but a very limited list of suitable objects , therefore it is desirable to take in the southern hemisphere also .
I have thus , I believe , in part at least , explained the views of those who felt anxious that the southern hemisphere should be examined with a telescope of great power : the first attempt to give practical effect to their wishes was at the meeting of the British Association held at Birmingham in 1849 .
The President of the Association was on that occasion directed to apply to Government to send a telescope of great power , in charge of an experienced observer , to the southern hemisphere .
That application was unsuccessful ; the Government , while they acknowledged the importance of the proposed object , declined to proceed , from an apprehension of difficulties , through which they did not then see their way clearly .
At a subsequent meeting of the British Association , the matter was again discussed , and a Committee was appointed , to take such measures as they considered best calculated to effect the object .
The Committee , in the first instance , laid the whole matter before your Council , and the Council , approving of the suggestion , appointed a Committee to consider the subject in detail .
It ws , necessary before the Government could b'e applied to with a reisonable prospect of success , that a specific plan should be in readiness , complete in all its details : the size of the instrument , its optical principle , its mounting , and its site .
With the view of obtaining the best information , the Committee consulted several eminent men , conversant with the management of large instruments .
The first question proposed was , whether the instrument should be a refractor or reflector , and it was decided in favour of the reflector-there was in fact no choice .
In the present state of knowledge , there was no probability that a good refractor could be constructed of sufficient power .
As to size , the Committee were disposed to recommend a telescope of 4 feet aperture , and 35 feet focal length , to be mounted equatorially ; not that an instrument of that size was the best , a much larger no doubt would have been better , but it would have been obviously unwise to have recommended a plan involving a very large expenditure .
The Committee proceeded one step further , they pointed out a mechanical engineer of character and experience in the construction of optical instruments , who was willing to undertake to make the instrument for a specific sum , and having proceeded thus far , they laid the whole matter before Government , with whom it at present rests .
Another application is also before the Government of a very different character , but with the same great object , the advancement of human knowledge : it is to provide a building for the reception of the Scientific Societies of the metropolis .
That application did not proceed from your Council , but from a large number of individuals , many of them Fellows of this Society , the remainder distinguished members of the other Scientific bodies of the metropolis .
The application was made in the shape of a Memorial to Government , the signatures amounting to about 200 .
There had been no effort , I believe , on the part of those who brought the subject for .
ward to procure a large number of signatures , or in any way to obtain a direct representation of the Scientific bodies : the Memorial was a preliminary step , and in that stage nothing more was required , than to show that it was supported by a large number of persons of that class , from which science , if called upon , would have selected her representatives .
The Memorial was presented by a deputation , and care was taken to explain to Government , that it did not emanate officially from this Society or from any other .
A detailed explanation was also entered into , showing in what way the cultivation of science would be promoted , by providing suitable accommodation for the scientific societies .
Carleton ride was suggested as a convenient situation , and other sites were named in the same neighbourhood .
Reference was made to the suggested site at Kensington , and it was explained that it would be inconvenient to a large proportion of the working men of the Societies , many of them engaged in business , and whose time was most valuable , that they would be unable to attend regularly , and that the usefulness of the Societies would be thereby greatly impaired .
It was also intimated that the purchase-of a large tract of land at Kensington did not materially affect the question ; as a small space would be sufficient for all the Societies , and therefore that a free grant at Kensington could be but little object .
Should the Government accede to the Memorial , I presume that then the Societies will be regularly consulted .
The site will then be pointed out , the-pial of the building laid.before you , and you will form your own opinion ; you will decide whether to remain as you are , or to accept the enlarged accommodation , which the far-sighted liberality of the nation will have provided for you .
The interests of science appear to me to be deeply involved in the question of providing a suitable building for the Scientific Societies .
It is a practical question , and we must look at it in all its bearings , as men of the world .
Had there been no Societies , science would not therefore have stood still ; but its progress would have been much slower .
The desire of discovering the truth , which is so strongly implanted in every educated mind , would have been to some a sufficient motive for exertion ; but the aid and inspiriting influence of association would have been wanting , and many active members of our scientific bodies would probably never have taken up science as a pursuit at all .
The love of ease , the fascinations of society , the little prospect of advancing their material interests , through the path of scientific discovery , would have been to them a sufficient excuse for indolence .
This point was very well put at the last Anniversary , by one of the distinguished men to whom you awarded a medal ; he said , had he been like Robinson Crusoe on a desert island ; the desire of discovering the truth would have been an inducement to work , but to obtain the good opinion of his fellow-men , associated together , was with him avery strong additional inducement .
If a man , naturally gifted , and well.educated , attends scientific meetings , he will feel himself constrained to work , and therefore it is so important for the advancement of knowledge , that able men should be induced to join and attend the different societies ; but nothing I think would have greater attractions than a building in a convenient central situation , where the business of science would be transacted , where there would be access to the best libraries , and where that kind of societymost valued by scientific men would always be within reach .
Where the question is , shall a great country like England provide a suitable place of meeting for its scientific bodies , I should hope there are not many who would be disposed to count the cost , I scarcely think the question , cui bono , could be asked ; should any one however ask it , I should answer , the object is to promote the increase of human knowledge , to extend the domain of reason ; and " it is the understanding that sets man above the rest of sensible beings , and gives him all the advantage and dominion which he has over them .
" To take lower ground , science is a part of England 's greatness : without science England would be nothing , and in the race with the world , if she is forsaken by science , she will fall far behind .
The exact sciences are the foundation of navigation ; they are the foundation of engineering ; and many of our manufactures are based on principles , which have been evolved in the researches of a refined chemistry .
Besides , have we not sometimes been at fault where science was not ready to guide us ?
We have heard of failures in ship-building : some ships sail slowly , and are therefore of little use ; others roll , and strain , and are also condemned ; where we have succeeded best we have taken our models from abroad , where high science has long been urged , to lend its aid in naval construction : where such men as the two Bernouillis , Euler , Chapman and others , have been induced to examine and discuss the questions of most interest to the practical builder .
In civil engineering too , our most eminent men , I am sure , would not hesitate to acknowledge their obligations to our neighbours .
We have long been almost unrivalled in the applications of steam ; and yet , who is there who has not sought for the theory of the locomotive in the essay of De Pampour , or the principles of steam in general in the researches of Regnault ?
In military engineering too , as well as in naval architecture , has not science been sometimes on the side of our adversaries ?
and have we not in consequence suffered severely ?
But let me not be mistaken .
I do not contend that science can in a moment increase our success in the arts , upon which the greatness of this country depends .
If we were to say to the mathematician , give us the best lines for a ship suited to a given purpose , however profound his mathematical knowledge might be , he would fail ; practice must be combined , but in due subordination with theory .
It is where in a nation science is cultivated profoundly by a large class of persons , and circumstances exist tending to direct it to practice , that some men will always be found , gifted with the faculty of applying it in whatever way the interests of the country may require .
Popular science , however , will not do : it has its uses , subordinate as they are ; it must be science of a high order ; science as taught at our universities : there a power is created capable of effecting great objects , but in too many cases it is not applied at all , and it soon passes away without useful result .
Were it possible to enlist that gigantic power into the service of the country by making our scientific Associations more inviting , by placing science in this metropolis in a position more attractive , a result would be obtained which the merest utilitarian would consider of immense value .
I deeply regret that the last accounts have brought no intelli .
gence of Sir J. Franklin 's expedition , and that science has sustained a heavy loss in the death of a distinguished French officer ; the latest sacrifice to the perils of Arctic discovery .
Many now present were acquainted with Lieut. Bellot , and I am sure they will bear me out in this , that there was a singleness of purpose , and a propriety of feeling in everything he said and did , in perfect keeping with the tenor of his previous life ; and though he was here so stiort a time , he was regarded as a friend by all who knew him .
You have heard no doubt with sincere pride , that British valour , and British perseverance , have at length solved the problem of the north-west passage .
A question of great geographical interest has thus been settled , and an important fact has been added to the data of terrestrial physics .
In all future inquiries relative to the oceanic currents , the tides , the variations of temperature , the winds , and meteorological phenomena generally , it will no longer be a doubtful assumption , that the sea flows freely around the northern coast of America .
It now only remains for me to state , and I have the greatest pleasure in doing so , that your Society is prosperous .
The publication of your Transactions proceeds regularly , and they continue to be , as they have been for two centuries , the records of every important addition to British science .
There is no indication of a diminished anxiety to share in your labours , the candidates for admission are numerous , and your Council have had no difficulty , though acting under a heavy responsibility , in pointing out to you the required number of persons in every way worthy of the Fellowship .
So far the present system of election appears to me to have worked extremely well .
The Fellowship is sought for as a high honour , and here , as at the Universities , the claims of the respective candidates are tested by responsible persons .
In this , the Royal Society differs from every other Society ; and I think upon the preservation of that distinction , the welfare , the position , perhaps the existence of our Society depends .
For 150 years the Royal Society stood alone ; unaided it bore the whole labour of wielding the power of Association , in the cause of progressing science .
Recently other Societies were formed to meet more fully the wants of individual sciences ; not as rivals to the Royal Society , ( in all of them our Fellows have held very prominent places ) but as the most friendly allies ; not dependent on the Royal Society , but fully admitting its pre-eminence .
These Societies have rendered important services ; much has been effected through their means which otherwise would not have been attempted .
Science has been carried out by them in the utmost detail .
Besides , it is a law of human nature , that we usually form a high estimate of the importance of the pursuit we are engaged in ; and in a Society limited to one science , that feeling will necessarily predominate , and will act as a stimulus to exertion .
Under its influence , labour will be cheerfully borne , from which under other cir , cumstances we should recoil with disgust .
That feeling , however , would proceed too far were there not here a power to restrain it : you hold that power : you exercise a presiding influence over all the Societies .
The leading members of the scientific bodies have their places here , and science is fully represented .
You look at science as a whole , and you weigh the value of every new discovery as adding to the mass of human knowledge .
The honour of contributing to your Transactions is eagerly sought for , the medals you award are in high estimation , and science is stimulated to its grandest efforts , because you are viewed by all as just and able judges .
To hold securely that proud position , learning must be your distinguishing attribute ; in the altered state of things it is learning which fits you for your new duties , and so long as the Fellowship is regarded as the reward of services in the cause of science of no common order , or of proved scientific eminence at the universities , so long , I think , we may predict with confidence that the Royal Society will flourish .
COLONEL SABINE , I am happy to have the honour of handing to you the Copley Medal in charge for Professor Dove .
Three important branches of Terrestrial Physics have recently been greatly advanced , and by similar means ; the adequate discussion of accumulated results of observation-I allude to the tides , terrestrial magnetism , and the distribution of heat over the surface of the globe .
Our knowledge of the tides was limited , and fragmentary , till it became extended and systematized by the researches of Dr. Whewell , and notwithstanding the numerous detached observations which had long been made on the effects of terrestrial magnetism , we were still ignorant of much of the real laws of the phenomena , till under the leading influence of Gauss , not only individuals , but Governments were induced to unite in measures for obtaining the accurate and systematic observations , which in the hands of Colonel Sabine are leading to such determinate and interesting results .
The labours of Dr. Whewell and Colonel Sabine have received their well-merited acknowledgements in the Medals which have been respectively awarded to them ; and this year the Copley Medal has been awarded to Professor Dove for his laborious and valuable researches on the distribution of heat over the surface of the globe .
The results obtained in all these cases constitute unquestionably great steps in the progress of science ; and though labours such as these may not necessarily demand that acute discrimination and inventive faculty required for the discovery of truths before unthought-of , they do require what is scarcely less valuable , those enlarged and comprehensive views by which we are enabled to recognize real order in the midst of apparent confusion , and deduce from the most complex and intricate phenomena , the simple laws to which they may be referable .
The work which Professor Dove has recently completed comprises the results obtained by him during many years , by the careful and elaborate discussion of an immense number of recorded observations of the temperature at numerous stations , and in almost every accessible region of the globe .
The details of these discussions have been published by him at different times , principally in the Transactions of the Berlin Academy .
In this recent work a large map exhibits the isothermal lines for January and July , the months of extreme winter and summer temperatures ; while twelve small maps engraved on two sheets exhibit the isothermals for each successive month , and enable us to trace at once their changing positions with the changing seasons .
Twelve other small maps of subnormal lines show , in like manner , for each month , the difference between the actual mean temperature for that month , and the normal temperature ( that due to the latitude ) at all places situated along each abnormal line .
These , with other subsidiary maps , present to us at once , and with the greatest perspicuity , the principal results of these laborious investigations .
These maps are accompanied by a considerable quantity of letterpress , containing not only descriptive details , but also a very able discussion of some of the principal results obtained , and of the general conclusions deducible from them ; more especially as regards the causes of the abnormal temperatures which characterise the northern hemisphere .
The influence of oceanic currents , on the temperature of the regions in which they prevail , was very inadequately appreciated before the publication of these researches .
Of these currents , the most important , and infinitely the most interesting to ourselves , is that so well known as the Gulf-stream .
Its immense influence in moderating the winter cold along the shores of western Europe is shown by the singularly abnormal position of the winter isothermals in that region ; and not only is this fact of great interest in itself , and of first-rate importance in meteorology , but it has also enabled the geologist to form a far more accurate estimate than otherwise it would have been possible to have done , of the probable climatal influences of particular configurations of land and sea , and thus to overcome , not by arbitrary hypothesis , but by logical deduction , some of the greatest apparent anomalies in speculative geology .
The former existence of glaciers in our own islands need no longer be regarded as a mystery , for it is now demonstrable that they would be the highly probable , if not the absolutely necessary consequences of any configuration of land and sea which should divert the Gulf-stream from its present course ; and the geologist has no difficulty in conceiving such a configuration , not merely as a possible , but as one which probably did exist during the glacial period .
I mention this as an instance of the diffusive influence of a great step in one science , on the progress of other sciences more or less directly associated with it .
A further and very important conclusion has been deduced by Professor Dove from the monthly isothermals , I mean the fact that the mean temperature of the surface of the globe , as a whole , is higher when the sun is in the northern , than in the southern signs .
The explanation is , that the northern hemisphere has more land than sea at the surface , and the southern much more sea than land , and that from the different action of the sun 's rays on the solid and fluid surfaces , it follows that the hot summer of the northern hemisphere added to the mild winter of the southern , gives a mean of general temperature several degrees of Fahrenheit higher than the cool summer of the southern , together with the cold winter of the northern hemisphere .
It will , I doubt not , be generally felt by all who are acquainted with these researches , that Professor Dove has well merited the honour which the Council has conferred upon him in this award of the Copley Medal .
MR. DARWIN , I have much pleasure in announcing that a Royal MIedal has been awarded to you .
Adopting the views of Sir Charles Lyell , who has sought to explain natural phenomena by an appeal to the evidence afforded by still active causes , you have observed with great care , and no one has been more judicious , or more successful , in collecting facts .
The frequent references made to your labours by writers on general geology , are evidence of the estimation in which they are held .
Your work on Coral Reefs is a fine specimen of an able argument on facts .
In that work you have brought together all the information collected by others , as well as by yourself , and you have explained the facts observed relating to the distribution of coral reefs , the conditions favourable to their increase , the rate of their growth , and the depth at which they are found ; and thus laying a sound foundation to reason upon , you have shown that , with few exceptions , the old theory , that these reefs have been formed on the edges of submarine craters , and generally that the rocky or other basis on which the corals have grown had been elevated , is incorrect ; and , on the contrary , that the true theory is , that the surface has been gradually brought down to the proper level , a depth for the growth of corals , by gradual subsidence .
No one probably can read your book without assenting to the general truth of your reasoning ; and as it places the fact of subsidence beyond doubt , a fact more difficult to prove than elevation , and exhibits it on a scale of magnitude and generalization quite commensurate with that of elevation , I think it must be accepted as one of the most important contributions to modern geology .
In your Monograph on the Pedunculated Cirripeds , you have treated generally of the structure , economy , and zoological relations of these animals , and given a systematic arrangement and description of the different species .
In the accomplishment of your task , you have not only made use of previously existing materials with sound and enlightened criticism , but , by the discovery of new facts and the promulgation of original views , contributed most materially to advance the department of knowledge to which your researches more immediately belong , and rendered valuable service to physiological science in general .
In the course of your inquiries you have confirmed and widely extended the observations of your predecessors respecting the larval condition of the Cirripeds , and have shown that all the perfect Lepads and Balanids pass through successive stages of metamorphosis .
You have also added largely to our knowledge of the anatomy of the larva , and brought to light the curious fact , that in one of its stages its mouth is altogether rudimentary , and perfectly closed up by the external covering , so that the creature in this stage is in fact a " locomotive pupa , " incapable of feeding .
You have further observed that the prehensile antennae with which the larva fixes itself in its final change , invariably remain permanent in the adult animal at the attached end of its peduncle , and in many cases afford important characters for zoological discrimination .
The knowledge thus gained from the study of development is most sagaciously and happily applied by you to explain the homological relations between the Cirripeds and Crustaceans ; and in this way you have conclusively shown that the peduncle of the mature Lepad corresponds with the three anterior segments of the Crustacean .
Again , by your discovery of Proteolepas , a. new parasitic Cirriped of low organization , you have been able successfully to compare the remaining segments of the body in the two classes ; for whilst the chain of evidence is in some measure broken by the absence of two segments near the middle of the series in Cirripeds generally , the missing links are supplied by the newly-discovered animal referred to .
The existence of an eye with a pairof ophthalmic ganglia in adult Lepads , as had been previously shown in Balanids , the presence too of organs seemingly intended for hearing and smelling the chemical nature of the tegumentary coverings the cement-gland and ducts , yielding a plastic material for attaching the peduncle and for other special purposes in particular instances , and the singular organic connexion between that gland and the ovaries , are all most interesting discoveries in comparative anatomy , first made known in your work .
Some very singular facts respecting the reproductive function in the Lepadidme have been brought to light through your researches .
You observed that the ova , on leaving the ovary , are gathered in a layer underneath the internal lining of the sac or mantle , from whence they are freed and extruded by the process of moulting , and then form the ovigerous lamellie already known .
Again , you have clearly established , that , contrary to the hitherto received opinion , there are species of Lepadidse consisting of individuals of distinct sexes , the male being parasitic on the female ; and in certain other species you have discovered a condition hitherto unknown in the animal kingdom , namely , bisexual individuals impregnated by parasites simply of the male sex , which you name " complemental males , " -a fact unquestionably of first-rate interest in relation to the physiology of the reproductive function in general .
Besides these more important observations , there are many more of lesser mark to be met with in the descriptions of .
particular species , -descriptions , it may be observed , which are.founded on a careful examination , not only of the external characters , but of the internal structure of the animals in question , in specimens obtained from every available source , both at home and abroad ; and the zoological distinctions are rendered more precise and intelligible than heretofore , by the introduction of a consistent and philosophical nomenclature .
The President then called upon Mr. Christie to read the following obituary notices of some of the deceased Members .
JONATHAN PEREIRA , M.D. , was born on the 22nd of May , 1804 , in the parish of Shoreditch , London .
At ten years of age he was placed in a Classical Academy in Queen Street , Finsbury , where he remained about four years , and distinguished himself as one of the most promising pupils in the school .
Dr. Pereira 's education was now directed to the pursuit of surgery , but his appointment to the office of Resident Medical Officer of the General Dispensary in Aldersgate Street in 1823 , led to his devoting himself more especially to the practice of medicine .
In 1826 he succeeded Dr. Clutterbuck as lecturer on Chemistry at the Aldersgate Street Dispensary , His first lecture was devoted to an account of the rise and progress of Chemistry from the earliest date to which the history of the science could be traced , and comprised a notice of the latest discoveries .
The theatre was crowded to excess , and the lecture created no little sensation from the profusion of illustrations , the amount of information , and the style of his delivery .
Among other illustrations he exhibited bromine , which had recently been discovered by Balard , of Montpellier .
His cultivation of chemistry at that time in connexion with medicine , naturally directed his attention to the subject of the substances used as medicinal agents , and in 1824 we find him publishing a translation of the 'London Pharmacopceia .
' This was followed by 'A Manual for the Use of Students , ' 'A general Table of Atomic Numbers , with an Introduction to the Atomic Theory , ' and other works for the use of those who were pursuing their medical studies with a view to passing the usual examinations .
He afterwards ulblished numerous papers on the adulteration and properties of drugs ; and thus prepared himself for his great work-that on which his reputation as a physician and man of science will principally rest , -his 'Elements of Materia Medica .
' The outlines of this work first appeared as a course of lectures in the London Medical Gazette .
This work contained by far the most complete and accurate account of substances used in medicine that had ever been published .
Not only were sources of medicine and their commercial history fully treated therein , but the author entered with great caution and skill into inquiries connected with the action of remedies : and thus his book became at once a standard of reference for all whtb were engaged in the business of selling drugs and chemicals , or in the duty of prescribing them as medicines .
The first volume and a part of the second of a third edition of this work had been published at the time of the author 's decease .
In 1843 , Dr. Pereira published a treatise on diet ; which at the time of its appearance was one of the most philosophical works that had yet been produced on the subject of the food of man , and ' Lectures on Polarized Light , ' the best familiar exposition of that abstruse subject in our language .
He also contributed numerous articles to societies , journals , reviews , etc. His death has left a great void in English Pharmaceutics , as no one in England had-a greater amount of knowledge on that subject .
As a lecturer , he secured the attention of his class by an earnestness .
of purpose , aptness of experimental illustration , and the practical bearing of his remarks .
-Early in the year 1832 he resigned his office at the General Dispensary , and on this occasion a silver salver was presented to him by the Governors of that Institution , as a memento of their regard and esteem .
In the following September he married , and established himself in general practice in Aldersgate Street .
In the winter of 1832 he became Professor of Materia Medica in the New Medical School in Aldersgate Street ; and at the same period succeeded Dr. Gordon as Lecturer on Chemistry at the London Hospital .
His connexion with the London Hospital procured him the opportunity of being appointed Physician to that extensive institution .
In 1841.he procured the licence to practise in London from theCollege of Physicians .
He was elected a Fellow of that body in 1845 .
On the establishiment of the London University , he was appoimnted Examiner in Materia Medica and Pharmacy , -a position which he held till his death .
He took great interest in the establishment of the Pharmaceutical Society , and delivered lectures on Materia Medica in connexion with that body , Dr. Pereira was the distinguished and highest representative of that science which involves the history , properties , and uses of drugs , better known on the Ccntinent than in England by its name of Pharmacology .
At the recent meeting of the Association for the Advancement of Science at Wiesbaden , there was a Pharmacological Section specially devoted to the subject , attended by upwards of two hundred members .
' The Elements of Materia Medica:and Therapeutics , ' to which Dr. Pereira gave the best years of his life , is considered to be one of the most elaborate and thoroughly workedout productions of modern science .
Compared with similar pharmaceutical works of France and Germany , it is remarkable for its diversity of character , excelling greatly in the amount of commercial and other practical information , in the preciseness and value of its notes , and in the scrupulous , exactness with which its statements are authenticated by references to their original source .
Where obscurity attached to any statement , the author was careful to express it with a mark of doubt .
As a , painstaking and conscien- , tious writer Dr. Pereira was unsurpassed , and his work contains nothing that may not be thoroughly relied on for its accuracy .
He also added largely to the botany of pharmacy .
Dr. Pereira had the : happiness of enjoying during his life , large honours , andthere is little doubt , had he been spared .
, he would have reaped the more substantial rewards of a lucrmtive practice .
He was .
elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1838 , atd was chosen on theCouncil in 1842-44 .
He was also a Fellow of the Linnean and other Scientific Societies , and was in constant communication with the learned of all : countries .
His death , which took place on the 20th of January last , was the result of an accident Being engaged at the College of Surgeons on senme scientific business , he felldown a flight of steps , which led to the rupture of an artery , and terminated his life at the early age of forty-nine , not however without leaving behind a name which will occupy a prominent place inte iry the te science of the nineteenth century .
HUGH EDWIN STRICKLAND , Esq. , was descended fro0m an ancient Baronet family in Yorkshire , one of whose ancestors was Lord Strickland in the Protectorate of Cromwell .
From early life Mr. Strickland was a zealous : student of Natural History , and in consequence of his proficiency in all its branches , but particularly in Ornithology and Geology , was appointed to succeed Dr. Buckland as Reader in Geology at the University of Oxford , and was subsequently elected President of the Ashmolean Museum .
Besides frequent and valuable zoological , botanical , and geological contributions to periodical publications,.Mr .
Strickland obtained great celebrity by the publication of an elaborate volume on the Extinct Dodo , which.he wrote in conjunction with Dr. Melville,. .
Mr. Strickland was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1852 .
His death was most melancholy .
He left Hull , where he had been attending the Meeting of the British Association in September last , to visit an interesting geological locality , on the line of raiway between Retford and Gainsborough .
Here , while engaged in taking a sketch , and imprudently standing on the railway , he was run down by an express train , ,and in an instant was a mangled corpse .
FRANCOIS ARAGO was born on February 26th , 1786 , at Estagal near Perpignan , in the department of the Oriental Pyrenees .
His father had only a moderate patrimony , and was Treasurer of the Mint at Perpi gnan Being intended for the .
legal profession , or some public office , the early.education he received was entirely literary , , but having a predilection to become an officer in the Artillery , he entered himself::at the Polytechnic School at Paris , and with but little aid from masters , instructed himself from the works of Euler , Lagrange , and Laplace , instead of resorting to the manuals where science is retailed at second-hand .
In 1803 , when he was eighteen years of age,.he was received.bythe younger Monge at Tloulose , and a year afterwards , on account of the superiority of his scientific attainments to the rest of .
his ompanions he was recommended by the elder Monge to .
the Observatory:at .
Paris .
This occasioned a change in his pQrignal destination , and opened for him a career far more useful io science and mankind .
Ihist in the capacity of observer at this national establishment , he occupied himself with researches of the greatest value to astronomy and physics .
The death of the astronomer Mechain had interrupted the measurement of the meridian of France , undertaken to determine the figure of , the earth , and to establish , on a scientific basis , the unit pf the decimal system of measures adopted by.the National Convention .
For this -object , Delambre and Mechain ' had already measured the part of the meridian-between Dunkirk and Barcelona .
To continue this operation to the Balearic islands , Messrs. Biot and Arago set out for Spain in the year 1806 , and were joined by the Spanish commissioners , Chaix and Rodriguez .
In April , 1807 , M. Biot returned to Paris to announce the results which had already been obtained , and Arago was left with M. Rodriguez to perform all the operations necessary to unite , geodesically , the islands of Majorca , Ivica , and Formentera ; he thus measured , by means of a single triangle , a meridional arc of a degree and a half .
At this time , rumours of the approaching war between France and Spain caused the Majorcans to regard with suspicion the nocturnal signals made on the heights of Galatzo , which they imagined were intended to direct the march of the French troops ; Arago was thereupon taken up as a spy , and imprisoned , on the 2nd of June , 1808 , in the citadel of Belver , from whenhene hcontrived to escape with his instruments , and embarked on the 28th of July for Algiers .
The French consul procured him a passage , on the 13th of the same month , for Marseilles ; but on entering the bay of Lyons , when in ; sight of the coast of Provence , the ship he was on board was captured by a Spanish privateer , and carried to Rosas on the 16th of August .
After residing for some time in a windmill , and passing himself off as a travelling peddler , he was imprisoned , with the companions of his voyage , on the 25th of September , in the fort of the Trinity , and on the 17th of October was thrown into the hulks of Palamos , where he underwent great hardships , and was often left for two days together without food .
It happened that the Algerine vessel in which Arago was captured , contained two lions sent as a present by the They to the Emperor Napoleon ; one of these animals had died in consequence of neglect or ill-treatment on the part of the Spaniards , and the They threatened reprisals on the Spanish government unless satisfaction was given , and the vessel immediately restored .
On the 28th of November , 1808 , Arago reimbarked for Marseilles , but in consequence of the incompetence of the pilot , after being driven about the Mediterranean for several days , was landed at Bougie , from whence he proceeded on foot , disguised as an Arab , to Algiers .
He arrived at this city on the 26th of Decem~ ber , but a revolution had taken place immediately before ; the former They had just been beheaded , and disputes havingarisen between the French and Algerine governments , the new They refused Arago permission to depart , and , had it not been for the protection of the IDanish consul , the future academician would have been sent as aslave to the galleys .
Fortunately , another revolution broke out ; the new They was hung , and Arago was enabled to leave Algiers on the 21st of June , 1809 ; but his misfortunes had not yet entirely ceased , for when he was in sight of Marseilles , the vessel in which he had embarked was pursued by an English frigate , from which however it escaped , and Arago was safely landed , after his threeyears of adventure , with-all his instrumeits , at Marseilles on the 2nd of July .
Onthle 17th of September , 1809 , Arago was nominated to succeed Lalande as member of the Academyof Sciences by forty-seven out of , fifty votes .
He was then only twenty-three years of age .
A short time after Arago 's admission into the Institute , he Jwas appointed professor at the PolytechnicSchool , where , on accountof the variety and extent of his knowledge , heb was able to give successively five ' courses on different subjects .
He was also chosen Examiner of the Engineer rand Artillery officers leaving the School of Application at Metz : .
: In 1812 the Bureau of Longitudes appointed Arago to give:a course of lectures on astronomy at the Observatory , and i:this : ; course was continued until 1845 ; a more eloquent expounder of the truths of science was never heard within these or any other walls , and crowded audiences from every class of society followed , with profit and pleasure , the facile expositor of subjects so difficult .
It was justly said by the present ruler of France , when in his captivity at Ham , that Arago .
' .
possessed , in a high degree , those two faculties so difficult to meet in the same man ; that of being the grand priest of science , and of being able to initiate the vulgar into its mysteries .
" In 1821 , Arago was engaged in making geodesical observations on the coasts of France and England , and in 1822 he was nominated member of the Bureau of Longitudes .
The notices , which from 1824 to the present time , Arago furnished to the Annuaire of the Bureau of Longitudes , for the instruction of the unlearned public on various important points of science , are perfect models of what such writings should be .
In the words of M. Combs , President of the Academy , " They will always be reperused with the same pleasure by men of science and by the ordinary reader ; in them we find an admirable clearness , with an erudition as correct as it is extensive , and joined thereto , the most rigorous accuracy in the statement of the phenomena , and the consequences which result from them .
" On the 7th of June , 1830 , Arago obtained the honour whih he valued the highest , being elected : to succeed Fourier as Perpetual Secretary of the Academy of Sciences .
He received on this occasion thirty-nine out of forty-four votes .
After the revolution of '1830 broke out , Arago entered into political life ; he was elected deputy .
for his native department , and became a member , of the Municipal Council of Paris .
In both these capacities he had many opportunities of rendering service to science and advancing public improvements .
The revolution of 1848 evolved another change in the fortunes of Arago ; he became one of the members of the Provisional Government , and was nominated Minister both of the Marine and of War .
On his retirement from these onerous offices , for his services in which he never made the slightest demand upon the national trea .
sury , disheartened with the state of public affairs , he entirely relinquished politics , and devoted himself with renewed ardour to his duties as Secretary of the Academy ; he commenced putting in order and perfecting his numerous unpublished researches , and continued to do so until increasing infirmities prevented him .
In May 1852 he was called upon , with all other public functionaries , to take : the oath of allegiance to Louis : Napoleon , as President of the Republic .
; this his antecedents and his convictions would:not allow him to do , and he resolved , rather than put this constraint on his conscience , to abandon the establishment with which his : name had been so gloriously identified .
Happily , :he was spared this wrong ; the Prince : President authorized his Minister to inform him , that he made " a special exception in favour of a philosopher whose labours had rendered France illustrious , and whose existence the Government would be loath to sadden .
" Arago did not long survive this event ; a complication of disorders was carrying him to the grave ; he returned , .
after a painful journey to his nativeplace , seriously indisposed , and died at the Observatory , on the 2nd of October in the present year .
His.funeral took place on the 5th , at the cemetery of Pire la-Chaise ; a brigade of infantry marched with the procession , and the Emperor was represented at the : ceremnoy nby Marshal Vaillant , Grand Marshal of the palace .
Though it rained incessantly , above 3000 persons attended the funeral cortege .
: - ; Arago was but once married , : and had the misfortune to lose his wife , a lady of great accomplishments , , in 1829 .
Hehas left two sons : Emanuel , a member of the Parisian bar , and formerly representative with his father for the Oriental Pyrenees ; and Alfred , a painter of distinguished reputation .
It now remains to give a short retrospect of the most prominent original investigations in physical science made by this indefatigable philosopher during the intervals of a busy and sometimes agitated life .
*The important discoveries ofMalus relating to polarized light attracted the attention of Arago strongly to this new.and fertile field of physical research , and on the 11th of August , 1811 , he read , to the Academy a memoir abounding with new and beautiful facts , each forming a starting-point.for subsequent investigations which have extended in no mean degree our knowledge of the laws of light .
: In this valuable communication , M. Arago examined , for the firsttime , the changes in the properties of polarized rays when they pass through plates of mica , sulphate of lime , and other crystals ; he showed that : they acquire the property of being divided by a birefriagent prism into two complementary coloured pencils ; and he examined the changes of colour and intensity dependent on .
the thickness of the plate , its inclination to the ray , itsrotation in i ; ts own plane , and the rotation of the analysing prism ; he also ascertained that when the emergent light was reflected from a glass plate at the polarizing agle , only a single-coloured image appeared , which changed to the complementary colour when the mirror was turned round 90 ?
, the -angles of incidence and reflexion remaining constant .
He also discovered the different remarkable modifications which a polarized ray undergoes when transmitted through a thick plate of rock crystal cut perpendicular to its axis , viz. that it is analysed by a bi-refringent prism into two complementary rays which remain the same , however the plate is turned in its own plane , and pass through all changes of colour in successive order , when the analysing prism is turned round ; phanomena very different from those of the crystalline , plates he at firstexamined .
These experiments , followed by the more extensive earesearche of Biot , Fresne rewster , and many more recent investigators , have created a beautiful and important branch of physial optics , designated that of chromatic polarization .
In this memoir it was also first announced , that while the light from a clouded sky undergoes no modification , that reflected from the atmosphere when the skyris unclouded is polarized , the intensity of the polarization varying with the hour of the day , and the position of the point with respect to the sun .
Ini 18i16 Ago published a fact which has been generally received s : an experimentum crucie between the two rival theories of light that of emission and that of undulations .
Dr. Young had shown that two rays of light , emanating from the -same source , act conjointly when they pass over equal paths , or paths differing by an even number of times a certain very small quantity , and that they destroy each other when this difference is an uneven number of times the same quantity ; whence it follows that the interference of two rays under the stated ircumstances produces a series of fringes alternately dark and bright .
Dr. Young further ascertained that the interposition of an opaque screen in the path of one of the rays completely prevents the formation of the fringes .
Arago ascertained that if one of the rays be made to pass through a thin transparent film , such as glass , the fringes are displaced towards the side to which it is applied , the magnitude of the displacement depending on the thickness of the film .
This proves that thetransmitted ray has been retarded in its passage , a result conformable with the theory of undulations , but in direct opposition to that of emission .
Arago subsequently se howed how this principle ght be employed to measure the minutest differences in the refractive densities of bodies , to resolve various delicate questions in physics , and in the construction of new meteorological instruments .
In 1819 Arago and Frenel published their joint experiments on the action which rays of polarized light exert on each other .
By a variety of ingenious methods , they proved that rays polarized ii the same plane mutually interfere with each other , producing fringes as in the case of ordinary light ; while rays polarized in planes at right angles manifestno appreciable action on each other .
They also showed that two rays primitively polarized at right angles to each other and afterwards brought to similar planes of polarization , produce fringes only when they have proceeded from a pencil originally polarized in the same plane .
These new properties enabled Fresnel to give a complete explanation of the production of colours in crystalline plates , which Dr. Young had before referred to the interference of the transmitted rays , thpugh he was unable to explain in what circumstances the interference took place , or why we see no colours unless polarized light be transmitted through the crystalline plates .
Hitherto Arago 's original researches had been confined to subjects connected withAstronomy andPhysical Optics , but the great discovery of CErsted gave his inventive ingenuity another -direction .
On the 4th September , 1820 , he gave an account to the Academy of the recent investigations of the Danish philosopher , and was in consequence charged to repeat them before that body .
In preparing these experiments he ascertained some hitherto unobserved phenomena .
M.:CErsted had discovered the action which the voltaic current exerts on a steel needle previously magnetized ; M. Arago found that the same current developes the magnetic power in bars of iron or steel , which are at first deprived of this property , and that the magnetism thus communicated to soft iron is temporary , ceasing with the removal of the current , while that imparted to steel is permanent .
He also found , adopting a suggestion of Ampere 's , that steel needles were more strongly magnetized by placing them within a helix forming part of the circuit .
These discoveries subsequently led , in the hands of others , to the invention of the electro-magnet and its valuable applications ; also to a ready means of making permanent magnets of great power .
On the 22nd of November , 1824 , Arago communicated to the Academy the results of a series of experiments , showing the influence which metals , not magnetic , and other substances exert on the magnetlc needle ; this effect being to diminish rapidly the amplitude of the oscillations without sensibly changing their duration : and on the following 7th of March he announced a still more remarkable discovery , the reverse , as it were , of the preceding .
Since a needle in motion is stopped by a plate at rest , M. Arago thought that a needle at rest ought to be carried along by a plate in motion ; and he accordingly found that on rotating a copper plate , for instance , beneath a magnetic needle , the needle was moved out of the magnetic meridian and stopped in a position more distant from it in proportion as the rotation of the plate was more rapid ; and if this motion were sufficiently quick , the needle rotated itself continuously round the thread from which it was suspended .
He added some further facts relating to this subject on July -23rd , 1826 .
These beautiful experiments proved the important fact , that bodies , which in a state of rest exert no action on a magnet , become capable , when they are in motion , of acting upon it as if .
they are magnetic .
Mechanical motion was thus , for the first time , shown to play an important part in the manifestations of electric phenomena .
No satisfactory explanation was , however , given of these experiments until Faraday , in 1832 , referred them to the more general laws of electro-magnetic induction which he had then discovered .
In 1839 , Arago laid before the Academy a proposed system of experiments by means of which the theory of emission and that of undulations might be submitted to decisive proofs .
The object of this communication was to show that the method invented and employed by Mr. Wheatstone to measure the velocity of electricity in metallic conductors , was equally applicable to measure the comparative velocities of light in air and in a liquid .
By following the indications of this memoir and employing Mr. Wheatstone 's revolving mirror , aided by many original and ingenious arrangements of his own , M. Foucault has recently completely succeeded in realizing these anticipations of Arago .
A passing allusion is all that can be made to other important investigations of this : active-minded philosopher .
Wee owe to him the discovery of a : neutral point in.the polarization : of : the atmosphere ; the determination , by simultaneous hourly observations with M. Kupffer of Kasan , of the synchronous perturbations of the magnetic needle at places very distant from each other ; a series of deli .
cate experiments in photometry , ; and various experimental verifications of Fresnel 's theory ; a new method of measuring the diameters of the planets ; and many valuable astronomical and meteorological observations .
In the autumn of 1834 Arago visited this country .
His principal object was to make himself acquainted with the methods of observation employed at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , then under the direction of Mr. Pond ' .
He also attended the meeting of the British Association which was that year held at Edinburgh ; on this occasion he received a diploma of the freedom of the city , and was nominated an honorary member of the Association .
He made several interesting communications to the Physical Section ; and the Committee having requested him to state his views as to any points on which it appeared to him it might be useful for the British Association to co-operate with the Institute of France , he .
noticed in particular " the great advantage which might be expected to accrue to magnetical science from the establishment of observatories furn-ished with adequate instruments , and under the superinteindence of a competent observer , throughout the extensive possessions of the British empire , and dwelt on the necessity of arranging magnetical observations upon a uniform and well-approved plan .
" The ensuing year the Committee of the British Association acted on this suggestion , by resolving that an application should be made to the Government to carry it into effect .
In 1836 , the Royal Society , on whose attention the subject was strongly urged by Baron von Humboldt , added its weight to the recommendation , and the joint endeavours of these two bodies resulted in the establishment by Her Majesty 's Government and the East India Company , of numerous magnetic observatories in widely separated parts of the British dominions , co-operating with others instituted in various parts of Europe and the United States of America .
It is to be regretted , that , notwithstanding M. Arago 's strong interest in this great scientific combination , no corresponding observations were made in Paris ; Algiers having been the only station established at his suggestion in the French Empire .
M. Arago was elected a foreign member of the Royal Society in 1818 , and on two subsequent occasions the Council of that body marked their sense of his high scientific merits by adjudging to him in 1825 the Copley Medal , " for his discovery of the magnetic properties of bodies not containing iron , " and again in 1850 , the Rumford Medal , " for his experimental investigations on polarized light .
" The late Rev. CHARLES TUINNO , M.A. , F.R.S. , and F.R.A.S. , was an ardent benefactor to Science .
He was born in Lincolnshire on the 10th of August , 1768 ; and after receiving the first rudiments of education at Grantham , graduated in Trinity College , Cambridge .
On the 15th of May , 1802 , he was instituted to the vicarage of Wendover , : at the foot of the range of the Chiltern Hills , in Bucking-hamshire ; the duties of ; which ie faithfully exercised for many years .
In 181l8 he was collated ato the prebendal stall of Suttonin the-Marsh , in the cathedral chiurcch of Lincoln , by Bishop PretymanTomline , on the death of the Rev. Dr. Charles Burnrey ; and in 1825 , obtained a dispensation to hold the.vicarage of Milton Ernest , in the county of Bedford .
He resigned this vicarage , and ail other preferments , excepting his prebend , in 1837 .
Beloved and respected by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance , he passed a long life in active utility , and died on the 12th of January , 1853 .
Mr. Turnor was descended from an ancient family of Stoke Rochford , and Penton House in the county of Lincoln .
Among his ancestors were Sir Edmund Turnor , Paymaster to the Forces in the reign of Charles I. , who was taken prisoner at the batle of Worcester in 1651 ; and his brother Christopher Turnor , one of the Barons of Exchequer in 1660 .
The property of Sir Isaac Newton , being only three miles from Stoke Rochford , was purchased by the family about four years after Newton 's death , and its integrity remains much the same as in Sir Isaac 's time .
This circumstance led Mr. Charles Turnor during a series of years to collect medals , papers , portraits , and all he could find connected with the illustrious philosopher , regardless of trouble or expense ; and in 1847 he erected an obelisk , 64 feet high , in the park of Stoke Rochford , with an appropriate inscription written by himself .
The interest which Mr. Turnor felt in the progress of science , is amply evinced by his valuable and useful donations to various institutions , and the liberal sums he bequeathed them .
Besides being a real patron of the sterner branches of knowledge , he was an excellent artist , and a critical judge of all objects of taste .
There remains but to add , that Mr. 'urnor bequeathed the abovementioned interesting memorials.of Newton to the Royal Society , on the understanding that the collection , which he did not live to finish , should be completed .
On the motion of thet Rev. Baden Powell , seconded by Dr. oget , the best thanks of the Society were given to the President for his excellent Address , and bis Lordship was requested to permit the same , to be printed .
The Statutes relating to the election of Officers and Council having been read , and the Rev. John Barlow , and Captain Younghusband having , with the consent of the Society , been nominated Scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were collected .
The following Noblemiian and Gentlemen were reported duly elected Officers and Council for the ensuing year : President-The Earl of Rosse , K.P. , M.A. Treasurer-Colonel Edward Sabine , R.A. Sjecretar^ ifsJ Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. Wirs lliam Sharpey , M.D. Foreign Secretary--Rear-Admiral W. H. Smyth .
Other Members of the Council.-.Thomas Bell , Esq. ; Rev. James Booth , LL. D ; Warren De la Rue , Esq. : ; Captain Robert Fitzroy , R.N. ; Thomas Graham , Esq. , M.A. ; Wiiiam Robert Grove , Esq. , M.A. ; Joseph Dalton Hooker ; M.D. ; Thomas Henry Huxley , Esq. ; Henry Bence Jones , MD. ; , George Newport , Esq. ; John Phillips , Esq. ; Sir Frederick Pollock , M.A. ; Rev. Baden Powell , M.A. ; George Gabriel Stokes .
Esq. ; William Tite , Esq. ; Charles Wheatstone , Esq. Statement of the Receipts any Payments of the Roya Society between Dec. 1 , 1852 , and Nov. 30 , 1853 RECEIPTS . ?
s. d. Balance in the hands of the Treasurer at the last Audit. .
: 182 01 Weekly Contributions , at one shilling ... ... . .
39 00 Quarterly Contributions at ?
4 ... ... ... ... ... . .
1080 00 17 Admission Fees ... ... ... ... ... ... .
170 006 Compositions for Annual Payments at -60 ... ... .:. .
360 003 Compositions for Annual Payments at ?
40 ... ... ... .
120 00 One year 's rent of estate at Mablethorpe : due at Michaelmas 185 ... ... ... ... ... . .
116 6 O0 One year 's Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... 38 0 1-13 .
80 One year 's rent ot estate at Acton : due at Michaelnmas 1852 ... ... ... .
52 9 ' 2 One year 's Income Tax ... ... 19 9 ... .
_ 50 19 5 One year 's Fee farm rent of lands in Sussex : due at Michaelmas:853 ... ... ... ... . .
19 40 One year 's rent from Royal College of Physicians.3* .
: ... ... ... ... 300 Dividends on Stock : One year 's dividend on ?
14,000 Reduced 3 per cent. Annuities ... ... ... ... .:. .
420 00 Less Income Tax ... ... .
12 50 407 15 0 One year 's dividehi on : ?
7705 9s .
lod .
3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... ... . .
2 ; . .
231 7 ' .
Less Income Tax..:.6 ... . .
618 11 2 24 8 .
' 4 Ilalfa year 's dividend on ?
1359 18s .
6d ... 20 76 Less Income Tax ... .
0 11 4 19 -16 2 One year 's dividend on ?
3452 Is .
ld.3 per cent. Consols , produce of sale of premises in Coleman Street ... ... ... ... 103 11 2 Less Income Tax.3 04 0100 100 Carriedforward ... ... ... .
2890 1 10 ?
s. d. 'Brought forward ... ... . .
2890 1 10 Donation Frnd , : One year 's dividend on ?
5331 10s .
d. Connsols 9 159 18 36 Less Income Tax , ... .
4 13 0 1 ... 155 56 Rumford Fund.i Oneyear 's dividend on '24S30 ls .
: .
Consols 72 117 9 Less Income Tax ... ... .
29 70 16 0 Fairchild Fund .
One year 's dividend on i 00 New South Sea Annuities ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 3 Bakerian Lecture and Copley Medal Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
366 16s , d. New South Sea Annuities..10 18 0 Less Income Tax.*.,2 .
06 2.^.:. .
10 Wintringham Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
1200 Consols .
, .
36 00 Less Income Tax ... ... .
10 OA 'A00 11 10 -'"". .
't ) o'*t Lu Miscellaneous Receipts : Sale of Philosophical 'Transactions , Abstracts of Papers , and Catalogues of the Royal Society 's Library ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
291 7 11 Sale of Three Acres Two Roods and One Perch of Acton Estate to Railway Company ... . .
1067 10 0 Bequest from the Rev. C. Turnor to complete Newton Memorial ... ... , ,,. .
, , 250 00 Balance from Balloon Comminttee due to Donation Fund..i ... ... ... .
I00 Total Receipts ... ... ?
4791 12 1 PAYMENTS .
Fairchild Lecture.-The Rev. J. J. Ellis , for delivering the Fairchild Lecture for 1853 ... ... ... ... ... .
Bakerian Lecture.-'Colonel Sabine , for delivering the Bakerian Lecture for 1853 ... ... ... ... . .
Salaries : ?
s. d S. IH .
Christie , Esq. , one year , as Secretary. .
105 00 Thomas Bell , Esq , one year , as Secretary. .
105 00 Ditto for Index to Phil. Trans ... ... .
550 AdmiralSmyth , one year , as Foreign Secretary 20 00 Charles R. Weld , Esq. , one year , as AssistantSecretary ... ... ... ... ... ... 300 00 Mr. White , one yearas Clerk ... ... . .
100 00 Porter ... ... ... ... ... 40 00 -:_ , ?
nq .
ci .
300400 675 50 Carried forward ... ... ... 682 50 t s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... .
682 50 Purchase of ?
1359 18s .
6d .
3 per cent. Consols ... ... . .
1367 10 0 Fire Insurance , on the Society 's Property ... ... ... ... . .
45 16 Gratuity to Bank Clerks ... ... ... ... 10 Bills : Taylor : Printing the Phil. Trans. , 1859 , part 2 1 .
208 99 Ditto , 185:3 , part 1 ... ... ... ... ... ... 79 17 6 Ditto , 1853 , part 2 ... ... ... ... ... . .
53 10 0 Ditto , Proceedings , Nos.90-97 ; Circulars , Lists of Fellows , Ballot-lists , Statement of Payments , Minutes of Council ; Government Grant Committee , Notices , &amp;c. &amp;c. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 144 19 9 486 17 0 Basire : Engraving and Printing Plates in Transactions , 1852 , part 2 ... ... ... . .
121 17 6 Ditto , 1853 , parts 1 , 2 and 3 ... ... ... .
208 10 6 Aldous : For Engraving ... ... ... ... ... .
66 0 Gyde : --336 14 0 For Wood Engraving ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
10 10 0 Bowles and Gardiner : Paper for the Phil. Trans. , 185 ; , part 2 , aid 1853 , parts I and 2 ... ... ... ... ... ... , , 202 00 Gyde : Boarding and Sewing 800 Parts of Phil. Trans. , 1852 , part ' ... ... ... ... .
22 18 0 Ditto , 1853 , part 1 ... ... ... ... .
11 62 Ditto , part 1 ... ... ... ... . .
9 14 2 Ditto , Copies for Authors ... ... .
15 19 7 59 17 11 Tuckett : Bookbinding ... ... ... ... i ... .
49 17 3 Hyde ; For Stationery ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 10 90 Saunderson : For Shipping Expenses..9 ... ... ... ... 9 16 6 Brecknell and Turner : Candles , and Lamp Oil ... ... ... . .
42 16 Carried forward ... ... ... 3191 16 5 ?
s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... .
3191 16 5 Meredith : Mats , Brushes , Fire-wood , &amp;c. ... ... ... . .
73 Cubitt : For repairs and relaying Carpets , &amp;c. ... . .
25 19 5 Shoolbred and Co. : For Furniture ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
9 16 6 Laing : For Painting ... ... ... ... ... . .
19 19 3 Charlton : For Cases ad Shelves ... ... ... ... ... .
3 19 6 Humphries : ForLivery ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
5 10 0 Tea , Waiters , &amp;c. at Ordinary Meetings ... 32 15 4 Powers , Cleaning Rooms and Books ... ... 10 16 0..~- ... .
228 76 Books purchased : Dulau and Co. : for Books ... ... ... ... 29 00 Taylor : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
22 23 Gould : for ditto. .
15 15 0 Williams and Norgate : for ditto ... ... 7 10 0 Quaritch : for ditto ... ... 37 14 0 Bumstead : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... .
16 13 0 Second-hand , ditto ... ... ... ... 44 12 0 173 63 Taxes : Land and Assessed Taxes ... ... ... ... . .
16 5 10 Income 'ax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4 19 2 ~ : : 212 50 Illuminating Sheets , for Newton Memorial ... ... ... . .
26 12 0 Wintringham Fund ; Governors of Foundling Hospital ... ... ... ... ... ... 34 19 0 Petty Charges : Postage and Carriage ... ... ... ... ... 38 10 3 Expenses on Foreign Packets , &amp;c. ... ... 313 Stamps ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0 12 6 Charwoman 's Wages ... ... ... ... . .
26 00 Extra Cleaning ... ... ... ... . .
600 Miscellaneous expenses ... ... ... ... 34 44 108 8- , 4 Balance in the hands of the Treasurer ... ... ... ... 1006 17 7 Total ... . ?
4791 12 1 EDWARD SABINE , -'leasurer .
November 30th , 1853 .
Estates and Property of the Royal Society .
Estate at Mablethorpe , Lincolnshire ( 55 A. 2 R. 2 r. ) , ?
116 16s .
Estate at Acton , Middlesex ( 29 A. 0 R. 1 p. ) Fee farm rent in Sussex , ?
19 4s .
per annum .
One-fifth of the clear rent of an estate at Lambeth Hill , from the College of Physicians , ?
3 per a-finum . ?
14,000 Reduced 3 per cent. Annuities . ?
21,478 12s .
6d , ' Consolidated Bank Annuities . ?
466 16s .
Id. New South Sea Annuities .
The Receipts during the past year , exclusive of the Balance of the last year and the Receipts from the Donation , Rumford , Fairchild , Wintringham , Bakerian and Copley Fund , Turnor Bequest , and sale of portion of Acton Estate , were ?
2999 9s .
8d .
The Expenditure during the same period , exclusive of ?
1067 1Os .
Od .
invested in the Funds , arising from the sale of land , and ?
300 received for compositions in 1852 , and of sums paid on account of Trust Funds , was ?
2355 13s .
6d .
Excess of Income over Expenditure includingCompositions ?
643 16s .
2d .
The augmentations to the Library included in the Expenditure of the present year , exclusive of binding , amount to ?
173 6s .
3d .
Cost of printing the Transactions , 1852 , Part II .
and 1853 , Parts I. and II . ?
950 19s .
2d .
Balance in hand belonging to the Wintringham Fund , ?
34 19s .
Od .
The following table shows the progress and present state of the Society with respect to the number of Fellows : Patron Having Paying Payi ng and Foreign .
corn ?
2 12s . ?
4 Total .
Honorary .
pounded .
Annually .
Annually .
December 1 , 1852. .
11 49 420 15 272 767 Since elected ... ... ... +8 +11 +19 Since compounded ... ... ... ... .
-2 Defaulters ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Withdrawn ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Since deceased ... ... .
-2 -16 -1 -8 -27 Novmbe 30 83 11 41 14 75 47 414 14 1273 759 ... d ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... November 30 , 1853 11 Receipts by Annual Contributions .
1830 ... . .
; ... ... . . ?
3634 0 1831 ... ... .2 ... ... ... 2860 0 1832 ... ... ... ... ... .
255 60 1833 ... ... ... . .
283 76 1834. .
318 18 6 1834 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
318 18 6 1835 ... ... ... ... . .
346 12 6 1836 ... ... ... ... 495 00 1837 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
531 00 1838 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
599 40 1839 ... ... ... ... 666 16 0 1840 ... ... ... ... . .
767 4 '0 1841 ... ... ... ... . .
, 815 12 0 1842 ... ... ... ... 910 80 1843 ... ... ... ... .0 ... ... 933 16 0 1844 ... . .
1025 16 0 1845 ... ... ... ... ... .
1010 00 1846 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1074 00 1847 ... ... ... .
1116 80 1848 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1122 16 0 1849 - ... ... .
1130 16 0 1850 ... ... ... ... ... ... 1146 40 1851 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1117 12 0 1852 ... 1135 00 1853 ... ... ... ... ... ... 1119 0 0

