November 30 , 1850 .
At the Anniversary Meeting , The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
Mr. Edward Solly , on the part of the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts , reported , that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of ?
553 4s .
9d .
, amounted to ?
3730 4s .
3d .
; and the total expenditure , during the same period , amounted to ?
3573 5s .
7d .
, leaving a balance in the hands of the Treasurer of ?
1.56 18s .
8d .
The thanks of the Society were given to the Auditors for the trouble they had taken in examining the Treasurer 's Accounts .
The thanks of the Society were given to the Treasurer .
List of Fellows of the Royal Society deceased since the last Anniversary ( 1849 ) .
On the hLome List .
Thomas Amyot , Esq. Sir Felix Booth , Bart. Sir Mark Isambarcl Brunel .
John Caldecott , Esq. William James Frodsham , Esq. Rev. Williama Kirby .
Right Hon. Sir Robelrt Peel , Bart. Right Hon. Lord Petre .
William Prout , M.D. Sir IMartin Archer She .
James Smith , Esq. Right IHon .
Lord Stanley of Alderney .
Captain Owen Stanley , R.N. James Thomson , Esq. William Vaughan , Esq. On the Foreign , List .
H. M. D. de Blainville .
I Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac .
Def auliters .
Charles Dickson Archibald , Esq. Right Hon. the Earl of MountJohn Burnet , Esq. cashell , John Scott Russell , Esq. List of Fellows elected into the Royal Society since the last Anniversary ( 18419 ) .
On t/ e Honme List .
William Henry Barlow , Esq. George Busk , Esq. Thomas Blizard Curling , Esq. George Edward Day , Ml .
D , Warren De la Rue , Esq. William Fairbairn , Esq , Robert James Graves , M1.D .
Levett Landen Boscawen Ibbetson , Esq. H. W. Dove .
Joseph Liouville , Charles Iandfield Jones , M.B. James P. Joule , Esq. lt .
Hon. Lord Londesborough John Fletcher Miller , Esq. Major Henry Creswicke Rawlinson .
Edward Schunck , Esq. Daniel Sharpe , Esq. Jolhn Tomes , Esq. On the Foreign List .
J. E. Purkinje .
Willheln Weber .
The President then addressed the Meeting as follows : GENTLEMEN , IT now becomes my duty , according to custom , to give a slight sketch of the events of the year which appear to be of most interest to us as a scientific body ; but first permit me to express my deep sense of obligation to your Council .
They have applied themselves so unremittingly to the discharge of the large amount of business which has devolved upon them , and have examined each question so thoroughly , that there has been little room for difference of opinion , and therefore my duties have been lig-ht , and free from anxiety .
Permit me also to return thanks to the distinguished men , Fellows of this Society , who , called in by the Council to aid them in wielding the new powers which they derive under the Government Grant , have rendered such important services .
You are no doubt aware that the first step taken by your Council in reference to the Government Grant , was to appoint a Committee , composed of the Council and an equal number of other Fellows , to make suitable regulations , and decide on the applications for aid in carrying out scientific objects .
I am sure you will concur with me in thinking that your Council , in undertaking new and heavy responsibilities , where a great experiment was about to be tried , and where a false step at the beginning miight have led to so much mischief , did wisely in seeking , in the varied talenlts and acquirements of a large Committee , a guarantee against any serious error .
I believe there were some not without their doubts as to the eventual success of the experiment , seeing that it had not always been an easy matter to apply the small fund previously available for similar objects : there were even some , I believe , who apprehended that abuses might spring up injurious to the Society .
To me , I may perhaps be permitted to say , these doubts and apprehensions did not appear to be well-founded : it is but a short time since you conferred a Medal on M. Regnault for very able and elaborate researches , carried on at the expense of the French Government ; if the French Government had not supplied the means , the experiments could not have been made .
You are about to confer the Copley Medal on the distinguished astronomer , Professor Hansen , for his discoveries in Physical Astronomy ; and it is a remarkable fact , that he has been for some time engaged in the construction of new lunar tables , tLe moon 's place being so far in error as to produce serious practical inconveniences : this work was commenced in time of peace with funds provided by his own Government , but is now about to be completed with funds supplied to him by our Governient .
Here were two examples strikingly brought before us by our own recent proceedings , illustrating the position , that while the man of science supplies the mind , others often must supply the hands .
There were many other similar examples ; but , moreover , the a priori reasoning appeared to me to be conclusive ; for if we except pure geometry , there seemed to be no other science where there were not often constants to be determined at an expense of time and labour , which it would be a lavish waste to require from men of genius actually engaged in prosecuting original discovery .
There was , I may add , in addition , the experience of the British Association and of foreign Governments .
That there were men amongst us able and willing to enter the many tempting fields of scientific inquiry no one could doubt , -men ready to labour for us assiduously , provided that in doing so they were not called upon to make too great a sacrifice .
As to abuses , it was evident that the Committee would frame regulations so as not only to make abuse impossible , but to remove all reasonable grounds even for the suspicion of abuse .
Soon after their appointment the Committee laid down certain rules and certain general principles for their guidance , which , although not irrevocably binding , nevertheless stand as precedents not lightly to be disregarded .
The rule , that in every case there should be a Committee of three Fellows charged with the responsibility of seeing that the intentions of the Council in making the grant were strictly carried out , is in my opinion of great importance .
Without such a rule it is probable that many of our ablest men , from a feeling of delicacy , coupled with an apprehension of a vague , indefinite responsibility , would hesitate to accept assistance .
I will not detain you by entering into any further particulars , as all the proceedings are recorded on the Minutes of Council , to which you have access ; but I am happy to be able to say , that although the season was far advanced before the intentions of the Council seem to have been generally understood , still there were many applications from men of eminence engaged in carrying out important objects , and even on this the first occasion there was no difficulty in making an effective appropriation of the grant .
Looking to the future , I think we may venture to anticipate that Parliament will annually place a similar sum at our disposal , so long as we can usefully employ it ; and that while we shall thus be enabled to advance science in certain directions where otherwise we could have effected but little , we shall remain as free to exercise our own unbiased judgements , and as perfectly independent as at any previous period of our history .
In this age of progress , when each month has its new facts , it would be vain to take a general survey of the discoveries of the year with a view of pointing out a certain number as the most important : experience has shown that time often affords the only real test of comparative value , as some discoveries apparently the most promising have in the end proved utterly barren ; while others , at first sight of little moment , have led to the most brilliant results .
It would be impossible , however , to look through the scientific publications of the year , however cursorily , without perceiving that much had been done .
Our continental neighbours have been as energetic and as successful as usual ; and I am sure you have been happy to observe , that in the United States , in the midst of the business and all-engrossing pursuits of a new country , science is engaging increased attention ; many very able men are springing up , and an association for the advancement of science las been formed and is well supported .
Several observatories , furnished with the best instruments , principally from the manufactories of continental Europe , have been established .
An astronomical expedition has been sent to the southern hemisphere , by authority of the federal government , under the command of Lieut. Gillies , principally for the fpurpose of making observations , which , used in conjunction with others in the northern hemisphere , may determine more accurately the parallax of the sun and the dimensions of the solar system .
No observations have yet been received from the expedition , but it is known that an observatory has been established for its use at Santiago .
Much also has been done by the labour of private persons : an astronomical journal of great merit has been established ; and several of the investigations published in it , as , for instance , on the velo .
city of the galvanic current , on the elements of Neptune , and on the wonderful comet of 18413 , will probably be considered as standards .
One of these deserves especial mention .
It is known that Bessel 's examination of the places of Sirius and Procyon for many years past led him to the conclusion that these stars are subject to the action of some unknown force , and he suggested the attraction of invisible companions ; now lately M. Schubert has examined , in the same way , the movements of Spica , and has come to the conclusion that it moves in an apparently small orbit , with a periodic time of forty years .
Such conclusions , it is unnecessary to observe , are extremely doubtful , but the inquiries which have led to them are deserving of our best attention .
In the methods of observing , a step has also been taken by the astronomers of the United States which deserves particular notice .
In a country in which the use of the electric telegraph is so extensively developed , it was natural that the application of this mode of instantaneous communication , to the determination of terrestrial longitudes , should soon suggest itself ; indeed the principle had been suggested by Mr. Wheatstone as far back as 1840 ; and it was then an easy step to make the galvanic wire an instrument for transmitting , not the comparison of the clock , but the actual observation of the transits over every individual wire of the transit telescope .
For this purpose it was necessary in a series of stations to place only one moderately good clock , to be used in the following manner .
An endless fillet of paper being carried by independent mechanism , under a style , which is pressed upon it by the action of a galvanic magnet , that derives its force from a wire passing through all the stations , and animated by a battery in any part ; if the clock be so connected with the circuit that at every vibration of the pendulum the circuit is interrupted , the trace made by the style upon the paper fillet will be interrupted at every second .
Now if at each of the observing stations the wire be carried through such an apparatus that the cir* Bulletin de 1'Academie Royale de Bruxelles , 7th October 1840 , and Comptes Rendus , tome xx .
p. 1554 .
cuit can at any instant be broken by a touch of the observer , it will be in his power , by a mere movement of his finger when the object passes each wire of the transit telescope , to exhibit in the impressed trace on the fillet a series of interruptions , peculiar to the observation , mingled in their proper places with the series of interruptions produced by the clock .
As this can be done at each station without impeding the similar operations at the other stations , it is evident that several series of strictly comparable observations may be recorded on the same fillet of paper ; one wire only being necessary , and indeed only one being applicable .
It then became a question whether an analogous method of recording transits might not be available for the observations of a single observatory , without reference to the problem of determining terrestrial longitudes .
For this purpose it appeared best to reverse the relations of the clock and galvanic current , so that the vibration of the pendulum should make an impress upon a fillet or revolving disc .
Practically , it is found necessary to have another battery , another wire , another galvanic magnet , and another style for making the impression corresponding to each observed transit over a wire of the instrument : if it happens that there are in the same observatory several instruments where observations are to be comparable , by a proper arrangement of wires all these observations may be recorded by means of the same style .
Numerical evidence is addulced to show that the irregularity of transits thus observed is far less than that of transits observed by the eye and ear ; and there is no doubt that the number of observations made in a given time may be very much greater than that of observations made on the old system .
On the other hand , the after-labour of reading off these graphical transits , and converting them into numbers , will be considerable .
I am not aware that this method of observation has been used on our side of the Atlantic , although I am able to assert that it has engaged the attention of some of the English observers .
Preparations are making at the present time for trying it at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich .
It is proposed to record the transits taken with the new transit circle , and those taken with the altitude and azimuth instrument , on the same recording surface .
Numerous experiments have been made in America by Mitchell , Walker and others , for determining with the aid of this system of record , the velocity of the galvanic pulse through the ordinary telegraph wires .
The inquiry however is one of peculiar difficulty , and I am , happy to find it is engaging the attention of scientific men .
Since our last meeting , the first volumes of Liebig and Kopp 's very interesting annual report on the progress of Chemistry and the allied sciences have issued from the press .
Full and complete as to Chemistry , it is a very excellent index to the recent papers on physical science in the periodicals , and supplies that kind of information so useful to a iman , who , fully occupied with one engrossing pursuit , is anxious to know something of what is passing around him .
Of the progress , however , of abstract mathematics it gives no account : there , however , there has been progress also .
Indeed , just as the increase of manufactures has always led to further efforts to perfect the beautiful machines , called tools , so the progress of physical science has at all times promoted the study of abstract niathematics .
It was thus that the attempts to solve problems relating to attraction , heat , and electricity , led to the discovery of the most remarkable properties of definite integrals .
To the fruits gathered from this branch of mathematics by Euler , Legendre , and other most illustrious analysts of past generations , our own contemporaries , both on the continent and in this country , have added results of the utmost value .
Abroad , Jacobi , Cauchy , Dirichlet , Liouville and Catalan , have not only assigned the values of definite integrals previously unknown , but , what is of more consequence , they have established in relation to them several theorems of the greatest generality and elegance .
Amongst ourselves , Mr. Ellis , Mr. Boole , Mr. Cayley , Mr. Thomson and Mr. Hargreave have pursued the same track with distinguished success .
Within the last two years the mathematicians of Germany have diligently cultivated the study of definite integrals , determining their values , investigating their properties , and employing them in the summation of infinite series .
The theory of elliptic integrals having lately formed the subject of an elaborate report laid before the British Association for the Advancement of Science , I need say little more in reference to the cultivation of it , than that the illustrious author of the Fundamenta Nova still labours at the building up of his theory ; nor does he want the aid of fellow-labourers who have profited by his teaching .
The volumes of Liouville 's and Crelle 's journals , for the last two years , contain articles on this subject by Guderman , Liouville , Mayer and Cayley .
Mathematicians have made some curious applications of the theory of elliptic functions to the solution of problems in geometry : of these , the following is one of the most remarkable:-If a rectilinear polygon admits of being inscribed in one circle , and circumscribed about another , there exists an equation of condition between the radii of the two circles , and the mutual distance of their centres .
Jacobi first pointed out the connexion between the problem of determining this condition , and that of dividing an elliptic function into as many equal parts as the polygon has sides .
In a recent number of Crelle 's Journal , Richelot has published an interesting paper , in which he shows how to derive the equation of condition in its rational and simplest form , from the formulae which relate to the division of elliptic functions .
Geometry , both pure and analytic , has of late engaged much of the attention of foreign mathematicians .
The general properties of surfaces relating to their tangent planes and normals , to their radii and lines of curvature , and to the shortest lines traced upon them , have been investigated afresh by various lmethods ; old theorems have been brought into forms better suited for particular application , and many new ones have been arrived at .
In the discussion of surfaces of the second order in particular , very interesting results have been obtained .
The difficulties which attended the integration of the differential equation of their geodetic lines having been at length overcome , the properties of these curves , and also of the lines of curvature , have been carefully investigated by the geometers of different countries .
Abroad , the first important steps were made by Jacobi , Joachim , Stahl and Liouville .
Profiting by their labours , Mr. Michael Roberts made the remarkable discovery that the lines of curvature of an ellipsoid are related to its umbilics , as a central conic section to its foci .
Since then , Chasles , Liouville , Graves , Hart and others , have arrived at various theorems concerning the geodetic lines , and lines of curvature of surfaces of the second order .
In the theory both of surfaces and curves , considerable advances have been recently made by means of general methods of transformation .
Thus , from theorems already established , new ones are derived without the need of an independent demonstration .
Mr. William Roberts , Mr. Thomson and Mr. Cayley , have lately firnished methods for transformation , by the use of which new and interesting properties of curves have been established .
The progress made in the evaluation of definite integrals has likewise led to many discoveries respecting the rectification of curves , and the quadrature of surfaces .
In ordinary algebra and the theory of equations , no very considerable advance has been made during the last two years .
I ought not , however , to omit noticing a valuable paper , on Sturm 's Functions , contributed by Mr. Cayley to Liouville 's ' Mathematical Journal .
' Crelle 's Journal also contains some useful memoirs on continued fractions , infinite series , and the results of certain substitutions in functions of different degrees .
The theory of numbers has of late found favour in the eves of mathematicians .
Jacobi and other writers in France and Germany have given to the public several interesting papers on different subjects belonging to this department of mathematics ; but of recent contributions to it , perhaps the most remarkable has been made in this country by Mr. Hargreave , in a paper ' " On Prime Numbers , " published in the 'Philosophical Magazine .
' Sir John Herschel has also very recently written on the same subject ; his paper , as you will recollect , was read last Session , but is not yet published .
The theory of La Place 's coefficients , so successfully treated by Mr. Hargreave and by Mr. Boole , has been lately made the subject of a memoir by Mr. Cayley , in which he has shown how to extend it to any number of variables .
Neumann has also exhibited a method of developing , in a series proceeding according to La Place 's functions , the distance between two points expressed by means of elliptic coordinates .
In addition to the papers already enumerated , I observe that several relating to the solution of differential equations , the properties of particular series , factorials , faculties , and determinants , have been contributed to the principal scientific journals .
Before concluding this brief and necessarily imperfect review of the recent progress of mathematics , I cannot abstain from remarking , that two of the fields of research which promised best to reward the labours of the mathematicians appear of late to have been cultivated almost exclusively by our own countrymen , -I refer to the Calculus of Operations and the Theory of Irnaginaries .
Two important papers on the former subject have lately appeared in our Transactions , and have earned for their authors the Medals of the Society .
In the latter field , Mr. De Miorgan , iMr .
John Graves , Mr. Charles Graves , and Mr. Kirkman , have succeeded in obtaining many curious and interesting results ; but the most valuable seems to be those which have beenl arrived .
at by Sir William Rowan1 Hamilton in his Theory of Quaternions : his late application of it to the geometry of three dimensions , and to questions in optics and astronomy , evidently prove the power of this Calculus as an instrument of invention and research .
I regret to say , that since our last Meeting we have lost many eminent men ; the obituary memoirs , however , seem to me to call for no particular remark , with one exception , that of the distinguished chemical philosopher Gay-Lussac .
That memoir has been prepared by M. Biot , and I am sure you will concur with me in thinking , that in performing that duty he has conferred a great obligation on the Royal Society and on all men of science ; the memoir will be read , uninjured by translation , just as we have received it .
CoL .
SABINE , I have the honour of presenting to you the Copley Medal in charge for Professor IHansen .
It has been awarded to him for his discoveries in Physical Astronomy .
To have contributed even a little to the advaneement of that science , as it exists at the present day , would have been no mean achievement .
Iansen has done much more ; his contributions are of a very high order .
Previously to the appearance of Hansen 's memoirs , two methods had been employed in the determination of the planetary perturbations .
One of these , known by the name of the method of variation of elements , besides being exceedingly beautiful in theory , is peculiarly well adapted to the determination of the secular variations and the inequalities of long period .
It has the disadvantage , however , that the number of elements whose perturbations we are thus required to calculate , is twice as great as that of the coordinates , the perturbations of which are the final objects of investigation ; and also that the former perturbations are frequently much greater than the latter .
In order to take into account the square of the disturbing force , which is quite necessary in the present state of astronomy , we must find the change introduced into the perturbation of each element of the disturbed planet , by the perturbations of each several element both of the disturbed and disturbing planets .
Consequently , unless we content ourselves with the selection of a few of the most important terms , the calculations become extremely long and laborious .
In the second of the methods above alluded to , the perturbations 5 of the planet 's coordinates are found at once by the integration of the proper differential equations .
But this method , though perhaps preferable to the former for calculating the inequalities depending on the first power of the disturbing force , is inapplicable , or at any rate seems as yet not to have been applied to the calculation of those which depend on the square and higher powers of that force , so that it cannot be regarded as affording a complete solution of the problem .
In Hansen 's method , the perturbations are applied to the mean longitude and to the loyarit-hm of the radius vector .
The disturbed mean longitude , combined with invariable elements , gives the true longitude in the orbit , and the logarithm of the true radius vector is found by adding its perturbations to that value which corresponds with the disturbed mean longitude and the saine invariable elements as before .
The perturbations of latitude are determined in a manner more analogous to the ordinary method of variation of elements .
Thus , with respect to the longitude and radius vector , I-Iansen avoids the inconvenience of having to calculate the perturbations of twice as many quantities as are finally wanted , while at the same time his formule take into account all powers of the disturbing force .
Hansen finds also that the series which expresses the perturbations of the mean longitude is more convergent than that in ordinary use which gives the perturbations of the true longitude ; and Mr. Adams found this to be the case in his investigation of the disturbances of Uranus , the use of the perturbations of the mean longitude , instead of those of the true , having been attended with considerable advantage .
' Astronomers have long seen the convenience of applying the inequalities of long period to the mean longitude of the planet , and similar advantages , though not of so marked a character , follow from applying all the inequalities in the same manner .
Only a part of Hansen 's investigations respecting the perturbations of bodies moving in orbits of great excentricity and inclination has yet appeared .
In this part he treats of the case where the distance of the disturbed body from the sun is always less than that of the disturbing .
This is perhaps the most important case , as it includes the disturbances of the minor planets and of Eneke 's comet produced by Jupiter , and the planets exterior to it .
An example is given of the application of the formulm to the listurbances of Encke 's comet caused by Saturn .
In this case the method succeeds perfectly , and there is no doubt of its applicability when the distance of the ( listurbed and disturbing bodies from the sun never become very Tnearly equal to each other .
If these distances ever approach very closely to equality , or if one of them is sometimes greater and sometimes less than the other , the calculations become niuchl more complicated .
Hansen 's lunar theory , " Fundamenta nova investigationis orbit , lun , , " contains the most complete view of the principles of the method first adverted to above ; but the inumerical results of his formule have not yet been published , His discovery of the long inequalities in the moon 's motion , caused by the action of Venus , is one of the most important that has ever been made in the lunar theory ; the calculations , however , have not yet appeared in a complete form .
B3NJAMIN COLLINS BRODIx , ESQ .
, I am most happy to present you a Royal Medal for your investigations ' On the Chemical Nature of Wax .
' Independent of the important addition to our knowledge of the true nature of wax , Mr. Brodie has succeeded in discovering two new alcohols of the fatty acids-Cerotin and Melissin .
These bodies stand in the same relation to cerotic and melissic acids , that wood-spirit and alcohol do to formic and acetic acid .
The addition of a new alcohol to our knowledge has been pronounced by Dumas a contribution to the department of organic chemistry as important as that of a new metal is to inorganic chemistry ; both serving as starting-points for future researches .
PROFESSOR QUAIN , I have much pleasure in presenting you , in charge for Professor Graham , a Royal Medal for his papers ' On the Motion of Gases .
' Mr. Graham 's researches have disclosed the existence of a hitherto unobserved property in gaseous bodies ; they relate to the flow of gases and vapours through very long capillary tubes , into a vacuous or partially vacuous space ; the rapidity of motion varies in the di'ferent gases , but the rate of motion has not as yet been found connected with any other physical property .
A new series of constants of high interest have been obtained by these investigations .
COLONEL SABINE , I have now the gratification of presenting to you the IRumford Medal to transmit to M. Arago , whose long and brilliant career , as one of the greatest discoverers of the age in Physical Optics , has excited the admiration of all men of science : the discoverer of coloured polarization , of rotatory polarization , of the polarization of the sky , and of many other important facts embodied in modern works on Light .
The Medal has been awarded : to him for his ' Experimental investigations on Polarized Light , ' the concluding memoirs on which were communicated to the Academy of Sciences of Paris during the last two years .
The President then called upon Mr. Christie to read the biographical notices of some of the deceased Members , nlich he handed to him .
HENRa-MARIE DUCROTAY BE BLAINVILLE was born at Arques in Normandy , September 1W , 1777 , of an ancient and respectable,5 ' family , and received his early education at the Military School of Beaumont-en-Auge .
On the dissolution of this establishment at the Revolution , he was sent to Paris to complete his education at the " Ecole du Genie , Mathe6matiques et Dessin , " and was exempted from the conscription of 1798 by reason of an accident in the right arm followed by partial anchylosis .
He accordingly remained in Paris , occasionally attending lectures on the Natural Sciences , and studying painting in the Drawing Academy of Vincent .
He had attained the age of twenty-seven , still undecided as to a profession , when , having listened to an eloquent lecture by Cuvier , at the College of France , M. de Blainville left the theatre with a determination to pursue the science of Comparative Anatomy .
For this purpose , he , by the advice of M. Dumeiril , entered himself ' as a student in the School of Miedicine ; and after devoting three years to the usual studiestook his degree as Doctor of Medicine in 1808 ; the subject of his inaugural dissertation being founded on some experiments on the influence of the eighth pair of Nerves in Respiration .
The ardour of M. de Blainville in the pursuit of what had now become his absorbing science , and his skill as a draughtsman , procured for himi the especial attention of Baron Cuvier , who , after employing him as a practical anatomist and artist at a salary of 2000 francs per annum , confided to him the delivery of a part of his Course of Lectures on Zoology , at the College of France ; and he soon afterwards obtained , by a successful concours , the Chair of Zoology and Physiology at the Faculty of Sciences , on which occasion he defended his well-known Thesis ' On the Natural Affinities of the Ornithortynchus paradoxizs .
' At the restoration of Louis XV1II .
the opportunity presented itself to M. de Blainville , through his family connexions and friends , of obtaining office in the administration of the newly-established legitimate government , to the principles of which M. de Blainville was sincerely attached .
But lie resisted the temptation , and remained faithful to his scientific pursuits .
He took advantage of the peace to visit the M5useums of England in 1816 , and made many drawings of rare ffollusca in the British Museum , and of anatomical specimens in that of the Rloyal College of Surgeons .
Several Memoirs inserted in the Bulletin of the Philomathic Society testify to the ardour with which he availed himself of his short sojourn in this country ; and he .
soon after collected and methodized his researches into the organization of the invertebrate animals in the form of two extensive Articles in the 'Dictionaire d'Histoire Naturelle , ' afterwards published as distinct works , one entitled ' Manuel de Malacologie , ' the other ' Manuel d'Actinologie .
' A vast number , upwards of 180 , Memoirs in the ' Bulletin de la Societe Philomathique , ' the 'Journal de Physique , ' the 'Annales ' and 'Memoires du Museuml , ' attest M. de Blainville 's active researches in all branches of Zoology .
He published in 1822 one volume of a Course of Lectures ' On the Organization of Animals , or Principles of Comparative Anatomy , ' a work which was never completed .
M. de Blainville was elected a menmber of the Academy of Sciences in the Institute of France , as the successor of M. de Lacepede ; and soon after , in 1830 , was appointed to the Chair of the Natural History of the Mollusca and Radiata in the Jardin des Plants , on the retirement of Lamarck .
Two years afterwards , on the lamented demise of Baron Cuvier , M. de Blainville was nominated his successor in the Professorship of Comparative Anatomy at the Jardin des Plants .
This Professorship placed him at the head of the famous Museum of Comparative Anatomy , the formation of which had been one of the Herculean labours of Cuvier 's great career ; and M. de Blainville availed himself of it to commence his great work ' On the Osteography of the Vertebrate Classes , ' which contains the most beautiful and accurate figures of the skeletons of a large proportion of the Mamilmalian Class .
Twentythree fasciculi of this work had been published , and MA .
de Blainville had corrected the proof-sheets of the twenty-fourth fasciculus , 'On the Osteography of the Camel-Tribe , ' on the morning of his death .
HI-e had taken his place in a railway carriage for Rouen on the 1st of May , 1850 ; and was found , on the arrival of the train there , in a state of apoplectic insensibility .
He was removed to the waiting-roomi ; an attempt was made to bleed him , but in vain , and he soon after expired , at the age of seventy-three .
He was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1832 .
GAY-LussAC ( Louis Joseph ) , 'un des physiciens et des chimistes les plus distingues de notre tens , naquit le 6 Decembre 1778 , a St. Leonard , petite ville dui departement de la haute Vienne , ou son pere exer9ait la charge de Procureur du Roi .
La revolution de 1789 , qui eclata lorsqu'il sortait de l'enfance , contraignit sa famille a le garder pres d'elle , durant les annees ou il aurait pu recevoir un education classique , dans des tems meilleurs .
Ce no fut qu'en 1795 , lorsqu'il avait deja 16 ans accomplis , qu'un pen de security etant revenue , ses parens se deciderent a l'envoyer a Paris pour y fair quelques etudes , et se preparer aux examens d'admission de 1'Ecole Polytechnique .
Malheureusement , un grande disette etant survenue , M. Censier , le chef de l'etablissement ou il etait entre , se vit force de congedier tous ses pensionnaires .
Mais les rares dispositions de Gay-Lussac , et 1'amenite de son caractere , hui ayant inspire un vive affection , il le garda , plutot comme un fils que comme un eleve .
Grace a cette heureuse association des qualites morales avec les dons de l'intelligence , qui le distingua toujours , il fut en etat d'etre admis a 1'Ecole Polytechnique le 27 Decembre , 1797 .
I1 en sortit le 22 Novembre , 1800 , dans les premiers rangs du service des ponts et chaussees , ou les meilleurs eleves se pressaient alors .
Avaunt de raconter ses nombreux success , dans la career scientifique , nous n'avons pas cru inutile de montrer les difficultes qu'il a du traverser , pour s'en ouvrir l'acces .
Berthollet etait alors professeur de chimie a 1'Ecole Polytechnique .
I1 remarqua ce jeune homme si bon , si zdle , si intelligent .
I1 en fit son rdeptiteur ; et bientot le fixa pres de lui , dans sa delicieuse retraite d'Arcueil , ou , entoure de tous les instrumens du physicien et du chimiste , il travaillait a son grand ouvrage sir la statique chimique , clair ' , soutenu , par les entretiens journaliers de son ami Laplace , dont , un peu plus tard , la residence touchait la sienne .
Ce fut sous l'ilfluence de ces deux hommes que Gay-Lussac prit son essor .
Ils dirigSrent d'abord son jeune talent verse ce champ de recherches coimmun a la physique et a la chimie , que le genie inventif de Dalton avait coinmence a explorer avec un activite si faconde , dans le omnmoire intitule Experinzental Essays , p'c .
, qu'il publia en 1801 * .
C'etait en effet , a cette dpoque , le sujet de travail qui ponvait etre le plus fructueeux et le plus utile , pour fixer un foul de donnedes dont I'emzploi revient sans cesse , dans les recherches experimentales , et qui dtaient alors ignorees , on imparfaitement etablies .
Obeissant acette inspiration , Gay-Lussac fit , dans !
a mime anilee , 1801 , son premier memoir sir la dilatation des gaz et des vapeurs t ; puis , sans s'arreter , un foul de recherches sir le perfectionnement des thermometres et des barometres , sir la tension des vapeurs , leur melange avec les gaz , l'a preciation de leur densite , 'evaporation , l'hygrometrie , et la mesure des effets capillaires .
Cela le conduisit jusqu'en 1803 .
Un occasion rare s'offrit alors , d'utiliser cet ensemble de connaissances physiques qu'il avait acquises , I1 avait eto charge de fair , avee un de ses amiss , un ascension aerostatique , pour savoir , s'il 'tait vrai que la force magnrtique cesse d'agir horse du contact de la mass terrestre , comme on l'avait annonce .
Ils constaterent , qu'an contraire , eile se conservait sans affiblissement notable , dans l'espace libre , jusqu'a 4000 metres d'elevation .
Mais leur ballon s'etait trouve trop faible pour les porter plus haul , tous deux ensemble .
Alors GayLussac fit seul un deuxinme ascension , dans laquelle il s'l !
eva jusqu'a la hauteur de 7000 metres , la plus grande qu'aucun honnme eut jamais atteint .
11 confirma l'observation deja faite sir la persistence de la force magnetique ; il rapporta de ces hautes regions , de l'air , qui , analysde se trouva avoir la mmene composition qu"a la surface de la terre ; et il recueillit en outre un sdrie de determiniations importantes , sir le decroissement rdegulier des pressions , des temperatures , de huiidite atmosph rique , dans tout l'intervalle de hauteur qu'il avait parcouru .
Ce dernier success , venaut , pour ainsi dire , conuronner to-utes ses precedentes recherches , acheva de hli donner , a tres juste titre , la repu-tation d'un physicien coonsomm .
E-fCectivement , si l'on se report i l'tpoque de ces travaux , on no saurait y 'm6connaitre un progres notable sir tout ce qui avait precede .
Les opelrations , les appareils , out un caractire de simplicite ingenieuse , qui distingiua toulo ars Gay-Lussac .
On yr emarque un intention gernerale d'exactitRde plus grande , et des resultats relativement plus precis .
Toutefois , du poin de vue o o. no us pouvons envisager aujourd'hui ces inv , estigations , il est evident que le sujet en 6tait trop complexe , pour etre penetre a fo d par des procedes ' experience aussi restreints .
II faut y appiiquer des appareils d'uiole conception plus gener"re , et d'eu mcanisi e plus sir , commre plus vary , pour embrasser l'ensem* M'moires de la Socidtc ' PhiIosophlique de Manchestear , tone v. party ii .
page 535 .
'T ' Annals de Chimise , tome xliii .
page 137 .
; ; l Ainales de Chimmie , tome lii .
page 75 .
ble de toutes les circonstances qui y concourent , pour suivre isolement chacune dans ses details propres , et pouvoir en recomposer l'effet total .
Enfin , il faut en exiger un precision bien plus grande , pour apprecier , non pas seulement ce que l'on pourrait appeler le gros des phenomenes , mais aussi , et surtout , leurs particularites specifiques , qui en etablissent le caractere essentiel et intime .
Ainsi , le coefficient de dilatation des gaz permanens et des vapeurs , trouve par Gay-Lussac , etait , a la verite , plus exact que celui de Dalton ; mais il etait encore loin de la realite .
En outre , comme le physicien Anglais , Gay4 Lussac la cru pareil pour tons ces fluides , tandis qu'il est sensiblement different ; et il la suppose aussi constant pour chacun d'eux , tandis qu'il vary avec les pressions et les temperatures .
Or , toutes mirnmes que ces variations nous apparaissent , dans les amplitudes restreintes oiu nous pouvons les observer , la connaissance seule de leur existence a un importance capitale ; puisqu'elle change toutes les idees que l'on avait pu concevoir sir la constitution des fluides aeriformes , tant qu'on en faisait abstraction .
Peut-etre Gay-Lussac comprit-il ce qui lui manquait , ce qui manquait aussi a son terns , pour suivre plus loin ce genre de recherches .
Car , tout en faisant un heureux et habituel usage des notions physiques qu'il y avait acquises , on no le voit plus y revenir ; et depuis la formation de la societc d'Arcueil , en 1807 , il s'attacha presque exclusivemenit a des recherches de chimie ; ce qui form , pour ainsi dire , la seconrde phase , et la plus brillante comme la plus durable , de ses travaux .
* Spit 1 le volume qu'une mass de gaz sec occupe a la temnperature de la glace fondante , ou 0 ?
cent , sous la pression oyevenne de l'atmosphere a la strface de la terre .
Si cette mass est port6e ila temperature de 100 ?
Cent , sous la rmnme pression , son volume deviendra:selon Dalton ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 13912 selon Gay-Lussac ... ... ... .3 ... ..'3750 Ces determinations sont toutes deux fautives , sous plusieurs rapports .
Else le sont , en premier lieu , dans la supposition de gdeneralit6 que lenus auteurs y attachaient , puisque le coefficient de dilatation des gaz vary avecleur nature chimique , etant valu6 dans des conditions pareilles .
En second lieu , else le seraient encore pour un m6me gaz , l'air atinospherique par exemple , pour n'y avoir pas distingue les deux cas diu problem , savoir : celui ou le volume se dilate , sous un pression conAstante ; et celui out on i maintient constant , sons un pression variable , l'intervalle de temperature parcourL etant pareil .
Dans ce deuxieme mode d'experimentation , le coefficient de dilatation se conclut de la force elastique par la loi de Mariotte , qui est suffisamnment exact pour ces reductions .
En considerant ainsi un volume d'air atmosph6rique sec , pris d'abord It la temperature 0 ?
, sous la pression 01'7d , puis port6 a la temperature de 1000 , le coefficient de dilatation qui lui est propre , entre ces limits de temperatures , a ete trouve:par M. RIegnault ( le volume variant sous un pression constant ) ... ... ... ... 0'367 ( le volune etant maintenuconstant , et la pression etant variee ) 0'3665 par M. Magnus ( Ie volume etant maintenu constant , et la pression 6tant variee ) 0'3665 D'apres ces derniers r6sultats , qui offrent toutes les garanties d'exactitude , on voit que le nombre donn6 par Gay-Lussac etait trop fort , et celui de Dalton plus eloigne encore de la v6rit6 dans le neme sens .
On doit a Rudberg , d'avoir fait connaitre aux experimentateurs Ie d6faut dui coefficient de Gay-Lussac , jusqu'alors adopt universellement , sans qu'on 'euiit v6rifie .
I1 Ie r6duisit a 0'3645 , valeur plus rapprochlee de la verit6 , 10mais un peu trop faible ; tant les dernieres d6cinmiales des d6terminations physiques sont difficiles a obtenir avec un entiere surete , 11 no serait pas possiblee de mentiomer ici tons ses meimoires .
Ils se sumivent , presque sans interruption , dans les volumes des Annals de Chimie et de Physique , pendant plus de trente annees .
Partout jusque dans les plus simples notes , on apper oit ses qualites distinctives , un esprit droit , lucide , des conceptions nets , et la fernete de jugement qui le retient toujours dans l'expression strict des faits .
On les reconnaitrait a ces caracteres , sans qu'elles fussent signees .
Pour montrer le rang eleved oi il s'est place , comme chimiste , nous rappellerons seulement ceux de ses travaux qui , par leur nouveaute , leur importance , ou les progrEcs ultdrieurs dont ils ont ete l'origine , nous semblent meriter le plus d'etre signales .
Celui que nous mention erons d)'abord , lui fat suggere par iune observation qui remonte presque aux dcdbts de sa carribre chirique .
En 1 804 , Mi .
Alexandre de Humboldt , dejaa celeibre par son voyage a-x rgions qninoxiales , av fait a jeune Gay-Lussac l'honneur de se Passocier pour des recherches d'eudioimetrie .
Ils reconnurent que , dans la 'orlmation de L'c10 , 100 parties en volume de gaz oxygine , se comRbint , par laa coimbustion , cavee un volumoe de gaz hydrogene si proche cd'tre tgal ' 200 parties , que l'on no pouvait pas repondre expepri-entalement de la difference* .
La tendance de ces nombres verse un liriite simple , frappa Gay-Lussac .
11 soup ; onna imimeddiatement que le rapport exact de 1a2 etait le veritable , et que cette simplicit pouvait bien tree un fait general , analogue , pour les volumes , a celui que Dalton .
avmai ddeouvert , pour les proportions de poids suivaant lesquelles les corps forment leurs combinaisons de dif-erens ordres .
Ayant suivi silencieusement cette idee , avee persevdrance , dans ton les ecas d'application qu'il put trotver , il la presenta corrmme certain quatre ans plus tard , a la fin d 1808 , non sans quelque crainte de la part de ses amisti .
Le resultat , tel qu'on peut 'ednoncer aljourd'hni , consiste en ce que : Lorsque dezx gaz se combinent leurs volumes ont t e-re etxe does ra2Oports numeriques simples ; et le volume cz( compose qt'ils forment , etant co ; nsidere a ldetat de gaz , present aussi un rappiort sim , ple , avee la somme des volumes des gaz qui sont entraes danzs la comSizaison .
Cette loi des volumes est devenue un des plus utiles que l'on ait trouvees en chimie , bien qu'il ait fallu queique tems pour ou'on en sentit la valepr .
L'enonce que nous venoons d'ein doDnner , no differe de celiii de Gay-Lussac , que par un tend-ue et un precision d'application , dues aux progres du terns .
La simplicite des rapports qu'elle suppose n'existe , et no peut evidemment exister , qu'a-tant que l'oon neglige les inegalites de dilatation des gaz , qui , etant presque toujours insensibles dans les experiences de chimie habitueiles , restreignent , plut6t theoriquementt que pratiquement , son usage .
11 no fant pas mettre a la charge de Gay-Lussac les systnemes que l'on a voulu y rattacher , en no tenant pas count de cette circonstaine ; car il no les a janaais acceptes .
Les speculations hypothetiqeis repugnaient souverainement a la nature de son esprit .
I1 dut se decider a fair connaitre cette loi des voltumes , sans plus de retard , quand il appergut les utiles applications qu'elle avait deja , ?
Annals de Chiimie , tome liii .
page 248 .
t Memoires de la Societe d'Arcueil , tome ii .
page 207 .
dans un serie de recherches chimiques , dont il s'etait activement occupe avec M. Thenard , pendant tout le course de cette meme annee 1808 .
La fin de la precedente , 1807 , venait d'etre illustree par un grande decouverte ; continuation heureuse des etudes patients faites par Hisinger et Berzelius , sir le pouvoir du courant voltaique pour desunir les elemens des corps composes .
En soumettant les effets de ce pouvoir a des experiences nombreuses et precises , les deux chimistes Suedois avaient constate la faculte generale qu'il a , non seulement de separer les principes des combinaisons , mais aussi de les transporter a des poles contraires , par exeniple l'oxygene des oxides , et des acides , au pole vitre ' ; le principe comple'mentaire , au pole resineux .
Durant I'annee 1806 , Davy s'etait profond6ment occupe de ces phenomenes de transport .
Concevant tout leur importance , il les avait muiltiplies , varies , et il avait fait mill efforts pour fixer les conditions de leur accomplissement .
I1 les reprit encore l'annee suivante , avec des appareils voltaiques plus puissants , et il parvint a decomposer ainsi la potasse et la soude .
I1 en avait extrait des substances d'apparence metallique , malleables , eminemment conductrices de l'eclectricite .
D'une vue hardy et sure , il les signala d'apres ces caracteres , comme deux metaux simples , qu'il nomma le potassium et le sodium .
Les deux alcalis en etaient des oxides .
Pendant que le grand chimiste Anglais poursuivait avec ardeur les innombrables effets de ces nouvelles substances , comme agens de d6composition des autres corps , Gay-Lussac et M. Thenard se jetterent ensemble dans cette voie , 'a sa suite .
Ils de'couvrirent , et annoncerent bientot ( 7 Mars , 1808 ) un procede chimique , qui fournissait les nouvelles substances beaucoup plus abondamment que les appareils voltaiques.* Is parent ainsi etudier leurs caracteres propres , et leurs actions sir les autres corps , avec plus de facilite , de generalite , de precision .
Dans la multitude de ses premnieres tentatives , Davy avait appercu des indices evidens , mais presque insaisissables , de la decomposition de l'acide borique , qu'il avait seulement signales , sans pouvoir les suivre , press par tant d'autres objets .
Mettant a profit les agens actifs qu'ils s'etaient procures , les deux experimentateurs Francais attaquerent cet acide , en le chauffant avec le potassium .
Ils lui enleverent ainsi son oxygene , isolerent son radical , qu'ils appelerent le bore , et le reproduiserent aussi , par synthese.t Davy obtint bientot apres des resultats pareils , s'tant pourvu desormais de potassium par la methode chimique , dont il reconnut noblement les avantages .
Pendant cette annee 1808 et les suivantes , les travaux incessans du savant Anglais furent , pour Gay-Lussac et Thenard , le sujet fecond d'une vive et continuelie concurrence .
11 no fallait pas moins qu'une rivalit6 aussi active , pour mettre si vlte au jour tous les tresors que renfermait sa decouverte .
La lutte s'lablissait , au profit de la science , dans les idees , counme dans les faits .
Ainsi , un dissidence cd'un nom-ent s'eleva , sir la nature des substances que Davy avait signalees .
Les efets qu'on en obtenait pouvaient se reprtsenter t pen pres aussi bien , en admettant qu ' else fussent , colnme il le croyait , des mretaux simples , qui formaient la potasse et Ia soude par leur combinaison avec l'oxygene ; ou en supposant qu'elles fussent des hydrures de ces bases alcalines , totalemenit depouillees d'eau .
Cette derniere interpretation semblait se rattacher mieux que l'autre aux idees anterieurement admises en France .
Sous cette inflence , Gay-Lissac et The'nard lemnbrasserent d'abord ; mais un exploration plus etendue des faits la leur fit ensuite abandonner , pour revenitr an sentiment de Davy , qui est aujourd'hui adopt universellement dans tout l'extension qui'il lui avait donnee dis l'origine ; les experiences ulterieures I'ay at pleinem'ent confikrmd* , Un alternative d'interpretation analogue s'offrit encore aI leur esprit , qunand eux , et Davy ecgalement , se servirent du potassium , pour ess ayer de decomposer les deux corps que l'on appelat , 'a cette epoque , l'acide muriatique , et l'acide miuriatique oxygene .
3 ais , quoique la question fut particuliere , elle avait un importance capitale pour la theory de Lavoisier , jusqu'alors universellement admise .
Dans cette theory , l'acide muriatique devait ; etre le premier degre d'oxidation d'un radical inconnu ; et l'acide muriatique oxygene en etait le deuxieme .
En combinans ce second corps , 'a 1'etat de gaz see , avee P'hydrogene gazeux , on reformnait le premier , qui , alors , devait contenir de 'eau .
Or , aucun procede , aucunL agent chimique , no relssissait ay fair constater la pre'sence des deux diemens de cette eau , qn'on y siupposait ; et l'on n'en pouvait jamais degager qu'nn seul , I'hydrogeine .
D'une auntre part , on no parvenait pas a ' extraire , du gaz muriatique oxygend sec , la moindre trace d'oxygene .
Apres un active concurrence e recherches expLrimentales , variees des deux 6otes , avec un egale perseverance , Gay-Lussac et Th6nard appergirent que l'on pouvait elnuder l di-ficulte , en intervertissant les relations theoriques des deux corps ; c'est at dire , en consid6rant celui qu'oln appelait oxygn cone un substae sstce imple , qui , par sa combinaison avec l'hydrogine , formail l'Pautre acidet .
Cette nouvelle vue faisait breche a la theory de Lavoisier , oii l'on suppose que I'oxyglle est le seul principe acidifiant .
Ils se bornierent , trop prudenmment peut-etre , a la presenter commne egalement compatible avec les faits et , retenus par la consideration des grands changemrens qu'elle necessitait , dans l'ensemble de leurs rapports , jusqu'alors admis , ils continuerent d 'em ?
Voyez la discussion de cc point de theory , Recherches Physico-Chimiques , tome ii .
page 218 et suiv .
t M6moires de la Soci6tc d'Arcueii , tome ii .
page 358 .
Lu a l'Institut le 27 FIvrier 1809 .
ployer l'ancienne interpretation comme preferable .
Davy n'dtait pas astreint aux memes reserves .
Apres beaucoup de tentatives , faites dans l'ancienne voie , il se prononea exclusivement pour lidee que l'acide miuriatique oxygene etait un substance simple , et il ui donna le nom de chlorine , en francais chlore , qu'on lui a conserve* , Ce choix 6tait conforme aux regles de la philosophie experimentale , n'exigeant qu'une senle hypothese , celle de la simplicite du chlore , tandis que l'autre interpretation e exigeait trois , savoir : la presence de l'oxygene dans un des corps ; de l'eau danis l'autre ; et , en outre , l'existence du radical inconnul .
i Mais l'initiative du doute , et l'enonce de l'alternative , appartiennent , par leur date , anx denx chimistes Fran9ais , comme Davy l'a reconnu lui-mme t. Or , si l'on considere la grande autorite des opinions qui regnaient autour d'eux , on trouvera qu'il a fallu beaucoup de force et d'independance tde jugement , pour s'en affranchir , meme jusque l. C'est ce qu des ttmnoins , encore vivans , pourraient attester .
Les vues que cette controverse avait fait nattre , devinrent tres utiles a Gay-Lussac , lorsque verse la fin de 1813 , son attention se porta 'sur un nouvelle substance , qu'un manufacturier Frangais , M. Courtois , avait decouverte dans les lessives de Varecks .
Le 6 Decembre , il lut a l'Institut tn court memoir , dans lequel il etablissait ses proprietes distinctives , et la designait , coinme substance simple , par le nom d'Ilode , en Anglais Iodine , qui lui est rest .
Ayant reconnu , des ces premieres epreives , son analogy avec le chlore , il I'avait engagee anssitot , dans un multitude de combinaisons paralleles , ou elle porta des caracteres semblables .
I1 l'avait combinee de ineme avec l'hydrogene , et en avait obtenu ainsi un acide puissant , qu'il appela iydriodique , s'autorisant de ce nouveau fait , pour se rallier ouvertement au mode d'interpretation qu'il avait voulu d'abord adopter , dans le cas du chlore .
Quinze jours apres , le 20 Decembre , il annonca qu'il etait parvenu a combiner aussi l'iode avec l'oxygne , d'ou resultait un deuxieme acide , qu'il appelait l'iod-ique , Ceci pouvait paraitre un apperqu contestable ; il le confirma plus tard , par un autre voie .
Dans l'intervalle de ces deux communications , Davy se trouvait a Paris , son gnie lui ayant servi de titre a un passeport exceptionnel .
On vit alors un bel exemple d'emulation scientifique .
On lii avait donnue quelque pen de la nouvelle substance , I1 en fit des essais en petit , avec cette address ingtnieuse , qui lni faisait trouver , dans les moindres objets , des instrumens d'experimentation .
A ' la priere de ses amiss , anu nombre desquels ttaient ses emules , il consigna le resume de ses observations , dans un note , qui fut lue a l'Institut le 13 Decelmbre , apres la premiere , et avaunt la second communication de Gay-Lussac .
Tons deux , depuis , conti* Researches on the oxy muriatic acid , &amp;c. , Philos. Trans. for I810 , p. 23:1 .
Lu A la Societe Royale le 12 Juillet 1810 .
Bakerian Lecture .
Phil. Trans. for 1811 , lu A la Societe Royale le 15 Novembre , 1810 .
t Researches on the oxymuriatic acid , &amp;c. Philosoph. Trans. for 1810 , page 237 .
Voyez aussi , dans ce meme memoir , page 232 , la citation faite par Davy , des recherches de .
Gay-Lussac et Th6nard , publiees dans le 2e vol. de la Socite d'Ar .
cucil , ot l'initiative de la noulvelle bypothese est consignee .
nuCrent a s'occuper de ce sujet , pendant I'annee suivante , avec un egale activite d'esprit , mais dans des conditions de travail bien differentes .
Davy , devenu rich par un marriage recent , se rendait avec sa femme en Italic .
Quelques instrumens de precision , et de manipulation , quelques reactifs chimiques bien purse , les plus indispensables , lui composaient un laboratoire portatif , qui le suivait partout , et lui suffisait .
I1 n'avait a sa disposition qu'une petite quantite d'iode , et no pouvait donner aux experiences que les momens de loisir d'un voyage d'agrement : mais sa pelnse y etait toujours .
Des trois me &amp; noires qu'il adressa a la Societe Royale , au sujet de l'iode , le premier est date de Paris , le second de Florence , le troisieme de Rome* .
Ce dernier est du rmois de Fevrier , 1815 .
I1 contient la decouverte de l'acide iodique , a l'etat solide et cristallise , tandis que Gay-Lussac no l'avait obtenu qu'en dissolution dans l'eau , ou en combinaison avec des bases , de maniere a en donner toutefois l'analyse exact .
Du rest , par un consequence naturelle , ces memoires de Davy offrent un rich collection de faits detaches , habilement vus , plutot qu'un travail d'ensemble .
Gay-Lussac , mieux pourvu de matiere , d'instrumens , et de terns , effectua ce travail dans les sept premiers mois de 1814t .
Guide par l'analogie qu'il avait reconnue entre le chlore et l'iode , il developpa savamment et patiemment ce parallele ; la suivit dans toutes ses combinaisons , acides , salines , metalloides , etherees , dont il assigna la composition ; et il fixa toutes ses proprietes speciales , si exactement , que l'on a pu seulement , depuis , etendre les resultats qu'il avait obtenus , ou perfectionner les procedes qu'il avait employe 's , sans rien trouver a reprendre a ses determinations .
E'tant parvenu a extraire l'acide iodique , des iodates , le meme sentiment de correspondence le conduisit a extraire pareillement l'acide chlorique , des chlorates , d'ou on no l'avait pas encore retire ; et il en donna l'analyse exact en proportions de poids , ainsi que de volumes .
Son mermoire , insere au tome 91 des Annals de Chimie , present un remarquable ensemble de toutes les connaissances physiques et chimiques , appliquees a 1 ' etude d'un nouveau corps , avec un surete de jugement , et un finesse de tact , qui no laissent rien d'incertain ou d'inexplore .
I1 est aussi complete et parfait qu'un travail chimique peut l'tre , a son temps donne .
C'est la que GayLussac presenta le premier exemple de l'emploi qu'on pent fair de la loi des volumes , pour conclure , par induction , la densite des vapeurs des corps , que l'on no sait pas vaporiser materiellement .
11 se servit de cette methode pour calculer la densite de la vapeur de l'iode qui n'etait pas encore connue , et l'experience a confirm depuis cette determination , si hardy alors .
Un an plus tard , en 1815 , Gay-Lussac mit le sceau 'a sa reputation de chimiste , par la decouverte de I'azoture de carbone , ou cyanogene .
Independamment d'une multitude de faits nouveaux qu'elle a donnes , et de la lumiere qu'elle a jettee sir beaucoup de points jusqu'alors obscurs , cette decouverte a ete d'une haute importance pour la science chimique , sous deux rapports .
D'abord , parcequ'elle a offert le premier exemple d'un corps compose , qui port , et guard , dans ses coImbinaisons , les caracteres de simultaleite que l'on avait cru jusqu'alors appartenir aux substances reputees simples ; en outre , parceque , venant apres celle de l'iode , et de l'hypothcse faite sir la simplicite du chlore , elle acheva de montrer avec evidence que l'oxygnee n'entre pas comme element necessaire , dans la composition des corps qui possedent les proprietes d'un acide ou d'un sel .
Gay-Lussac etudia ce nouveau produit , dans toutes ses phases de combinaison et d'isolement* : il determina toutes ses proprietes physiques et chimiques , immediates .
I1 definite rigoureusement sa composition par deux procedes d'analyse precis , et divers ; d'abord en le faisant detonner dans l'eudiometre de Volta ; puis en le bralant par le bioxide cuivre ; ce qui Stait un perfectionnement considerable de la methode qu'il avait anterieurement imaginee avec M. Thenard , pour analyser les matieres organiques par voie de combustion .
I1 developpa alors toutes les particularites de constitution , tant du cyanogene meme , que de ses combinaisons , dans leurs rapports avec la loi des volumes qu'il avait decouverte .
On retrouve , dans ce beau travail , toutes les excellentes qualites d'esprit qu'il avait montrees dans l'etude de l'iodef Mais la sagacite et la surete avec lesquelles il sut saisir les caracteres si imprevus du nouveau produit qu'il avait forme6 , completerent l'idee que l'on avait con9ue de son merit , en y ajoutant la gloire d'un inventeur pelletrant et prudent .
Ici il donna le second exemple pratique , de la loi des volumes employee pour calculer la densite des vapeurs des corps non vaporisables .
Les nombreuses verifications qu'il en a-vait faites sir les composes divers des corps gazeux , lui ayant inspire tout confiance dans ses applications , il eut la hardiesse d'en conclure la densite que devait avoir la vapeur du carbone , laquelle se trouvait etre un element commun a tout la serie des produits qu'il avait a etudier .
I1 l'infera de la composition de l'acide carbonique , en supposant que 1 volume de ce gaz renferme 1 volume d'oxygene , plus 1 volume de vapeur de carbone , sans condensation ; et le nombre ainsi obtenu lui servit ensuite avec success , pour exprimer tous ses autres produits par des rapports simples de volumes , d'ou resultait leur composition ponderale .
Evidemment , la certitude de ce genre d'induction n'est pas absolve , puisqu'elle se fond sir le rapport de contraction ou d'expansion que l'on attribue aux vapeurs composantes , dans les vapeurs composees , en leur appliquant de plus la loi de Mariotte , qui no s'y adapte pas avec un entiere rigueur .
Mais , sauf ce dernier inconvenient , qui est inevitable , le rapport suppose devient d'autant plus probable , qu'on l'etablit , dans chaque cas , sir des analogies de combinaisons plus intimes .
D'ailleurs , d'apres le principe general de la loi , si le nombre representatif de la densite auquel on est conduit n'est pas le veritable , il en sera toujours , approximativement , un multiple simple ; ce qui permettra de l'introduire dans la serie des combinaisons , sans denaturer leurs relations essentielles .
Cette extension donne ' par Gay-Lussac a la theory des proportions definies , a ete un des innovations les plus hardies et les plus fecondes que l'on ait apportees , de nos jours , dans la science chimique .
Poursuivant toujours la neme vue , il montra peu apres , dans un court note , comment des corps composes , physiquement tres divers , etant consideres a l'etat de gaz , peuvent etre idealement constitues par desgrouppes devapeurs , representantd'autres corps , toujours les memes , mais assembles en nombres divers et simples , de volumes gazeux.* Cette conception est reconmae aujourd'hui comme la seule rationnelle et generale , par laquelle on puisse exprimer , et mettre en evidence , les rapports de composition des substances organiques entr'elles .
I1 no faut pas imputer a ce principe l'abus qu'on en a pu fair , en prenant , contre l'intention de son auteur , ces possibilit 's de representation , pour des realites absolues , comme cela est arrive trop souvent .
L'espace nous manque , pour analyser , meme pour mentionner , un foul d'autres travaux importans de Gay-Lussac .
Nous avons pu citer seulement , parmi leur grand nombre , ceiux qui nous ont paru le mieux le caracteriser .
Pendant les annees qu'il y consacra , son talent reconnu l'eleva , sans effort , a tous les honneurs des sciences .
Professeur de physique , ou de chimie , dans plusieurs etablissemens publics , il porta dans son enseignement , comme partout ailleurs , la dignitd simple , et un peu froide de ses manieres , avee la nettete , la dr6iture , la justesse d'appre'iation , qui etaient habituelles 'a son esprit .
Mais ensuite , un , autre career , sinon plus belle , ou plus attrayante , du moins plus profitable a ses interets , de fortune , s'ouvrit pour lui , et l'absorba bientot presque entierement .
Depuis 1805 , il etait membre du comite consultatif des arts et manufactures , etabli pres le ministere du commerce .
En 1818 , on l'attacha aussi a l'administration des poudres et salpetres .
11 s ' etait marie en 1808 , a un personne dont l'affection repondait a la sienne , et il etait devenu pere de famille .
Dans ces circonstances , il parut regarder desormais comme un devoir de tourner son talent verse les applications .
Ce fat ainsi qu'il publia successivement des instructions pratiques d'une grande utilite , s ur la fabrication de l'acide sulfurique hydrate , sir les essais des chlorures d6colorans , des alcools , des alcalis employs aux usages du commerce , &amp;c. On y retrouve son meme caractere , d'adresse ingenieuse , d'exactitude , d'habilete prudent , adapte avee un rare intelligence a la simplicite des manipulations industrielles .
En cherchant a se rendre l'industrie profitable , il voulait aussi l'avancer ; et son integrite n'aurait consenti , pour aucun prix , cornmme le font tant d'autres , a propager , ou 'a tayer par l'autorite de son nom , des procedes , ou des entreprises , dont le success no lui aurait pas paru assure scientifiquement .
C'etait toujours Ie mneme horn-me , dans un autre sphere .
En 1829 il fut nonmem essayeur du bureau de garantie de la monnaie , emploi tres lucratif ; et , au lieu des procedes de la coupellation employ6s exclusivement jusqu'alors , il imagina , et introduisit dans les operations qu'on lui conflait , 1'essai de 1'argent par la ?
oie humide , ce qui leur donna un degre nouveau et remarquable , de facilite , de rapiditc , de precision .
II prit aussi de serieux interets dans un fabrique de glaces , qui ffirent suivis de grands avantages reciproques .
Depuis qu'il fut entre dans cette voie des affairs , il dut , pour sa consistance memre , desirer d'avoir un place dans les grandes assemblees politiques .
II fut nommem membre de la chambre des deputes en 1831 ; puis , en 1839 , membre de la chambre des pairs .
Mais , heureusement pour lui , il echappa aux inconveniens de ces positions perilleuscs , parceque , n'y remplissant que le role passif d'un savant considere , il s'arrangeait politiquement a peu pres de tout , et no faisait obstacle at personne .
Cette derniere phase de sa vie fut donce honorablement industrielle et sociale , plutot que scientifique .
I1 est mort le 9 My 1850 , d'une atrophy du coeur , dans sa 72e annee , apres s'etre longtems berce de l'esperance de revenir un jour aux nobles travaux qui avaient fait sa .
lebrite .
The REV .
WILLIAM KIRBY , M.A. , Rector of Barham , Suffolk , was born at Witnesham Hall in that county , the residence of his father , who was by profession a solicitor , Sept. 18 , 1759 .
His mother was Lucy , daughter of Mr. Daniel Meadows of the same parish .
His grandfather , John Kirby ( born 1690 ) , as we learn from a notice by a near relative in the 'Literary Gazette ' , wrote ' The Suffolk Traveller , ' a work of considerable reputation in its day ; and his uncle , Joshua Kirby , was the author of ' Dr. Brook Taylor 's Perspective made easy .
' This Joshua Kirby was the intimate friend of Gainsborough , who directed by his will that he might be buried by his side-a desire which was carried into effect , --and was appointed to the office of Comptroller of the works at Kew , by His Majesty George III .
, with whom he was a great favourite .
Mrs. Trimmer was his daughter , and consequently first cousin to Mr. Kirby .
Mr. Kirby was educated at the Grammar School at Ipswich , whence he removed in his seventeenth year to Caius College , Cambridge .
Here he pursued his studies with diligence , and laid so good a foundation , that he subsequently earned the reputation of being a sound and accurate scholar .
In the year 1781 he took the degree of B.A. ; in the year 1782 he was admitted into holy orders , having been nominated by the Rev. Nicholas Bacon to the joint curacies of Barham and Coddenham .
By his exemplary conduct in the discharge of his parochial duties , he so gained the esteem of Mr. Bacon , that he left him by his will the next presentation to the rectory of Barham ; to this he was inducted in the year 1796 , so that for sixty-eight years he exercised his ministry in the same charge , residing also in the same parsonage-house .
Mr. Kirby 's first love for natural history was awakened by his mother occasionally lending him , when a boy , some of the more showy foreign shells from her cabinet to play with , as a reward for good conduct .
He was accustomed to ask for his favourite Shells by their names , which he learned from his mother , and to this early pleasurable association of the nomenclature of objects of natural history , with the objects themselves , it is probable that he derived no small portion of the pleasure which he felt in his maturer years , from the dry and tedious investigations ( as some would have deemed them ) in which he delighted to engage , to ascertain the names and the relative priority of those given by former naturalists , to any plant or insect before him .
Mr. Kirby 's taste for natural history lay dormant during his university studies , as so often happens in similar cases , but was reexcited as soon as he entered on his curacy , proving how important it is that an early bias in this direction should be given in youth , and how vast a fund of enjoyment is lost to our clergy from the unfortunate neglect of this science in our schools .
The land-shells about Barham , which it is probable from his boyish predilections he would first collect , being soon exhausted , he naturally turned his attention to botany , and in the course of time became thoroughly acquainted with the flowering-plants around him , which he investigated by the aid of Smith 's ' English Botany ' and other botanical works .
When these were becoming scarce , that he began to observe the Cryptogamic tribes , may be inferred from his having one day in the spring of 1809 conducted Sir W. Hooker and Mr. Spence to the habitat of a rare species of Marchantia ?
on a particular bank , several miles from Barham , the excursion ending in a ludicrous adventure , which in after years he often related when speaking of his natural history rambles .
I-ow far his Cryptogamic investigations would have been pur .
sued , it is impossible to say ; but it is not unlikely that but for an incident which turned his thoughts into another channel , that of Entomology , he might have been led to carry them out with the characteristic ardour with which he followed up every pursuit in which he engaged , and that Mosses , Lichens and Confervae would have absorbed that attention which he afterwards gave exclusively to insects .
The incident referred to , which he has himself very graphically related in the 'Introduction to Entomology ' ( vol. ii .
p. 227 ) , was his accidentally observing and being led to admire and preserve a yellow Cow-lady ( Coccinella 22-punctata ) , which was crawling on his window-sill .
So little up to this time had he attended to insects , that this species , which is not uncommon , struck him with surprise and admiration , and led him forthwith to search for others ; and every new acquisition increasing his wonder and delight with the vast and beauteous region of Nature thus opened to his view , he threw aside botany and devoted himself wholly to entomologythus affording another proof , how great events spring from small causes .
While collecting and studying the insects round Barham for some years , during which he -communicated several valuable papers to the Linnean Society , of which he had become a Fellow , he particularly directed his attention to the tribe of wild-bees , and finding how few of them were described and how little they had been systematically studied , he made notes on the various species and families , till at length his materials were so considerable as to become the foundation of his great work , the ' Monographia Apum Angliae , ' which appeared in 1802 , in two volumes 8vo .
This work would have been thought remarkable as the unaided production of a country clergyman and entomologist of no long standing , had it been a mere description of a greatly extended number of the previously recognised British species of the Linnean genus Apis ; but when we consider that he had not only brought together and described upwards of two hundred species of the tribe , but with an admirable largeness and correctness of view had divided them into numerous families and subfamilies , so natural , that most of them have since been adopted as genera , and that he took lessons in the art of etching for the express purpose of being enabled to give a correct idea of the parts of the mouth on which his divisions were mainly founded , we shall not be surprised that it excited the warmest admiration of British and foreign entomologists on its appearance , and at once elevated him to the rank of one of the first entomologists of the age .
During the next five or six years , Mr. Kirby collected materials for , and contributed to the Linnean Society , two very valuable papers on the genus Apion , in which he described a great number of new species .
In the year 1808 , Mr. Spence , who had carried on an active entomological correspondence with Mr. Kirby for the preceding two or three years , proposed to him , with the view of remedying the want of a good English introduction to the science , that they should jointly write onea proposal to which Mr. Kirby at once assented , as he did to Mr. Spence 's subsequent extension of it , that the work should not be merely technical as was his first idea , but be thrown into a popular form , comprising under various heads all the known facts relative to the habits and economy of insects , and their noxious or useful properties , &amp;c. , and in the shape of letters so as to admit of a more discursive mode of treating the subject .
The general plan having been thus agreed on , Mr. Spence spent several weeks with Mr. Kirby at Barham , in the spring of 1809 , to fill up its details , and to commence the letters on external anatomy and orismology , which were the portions first written , and on this occasion and on similar visits in subsequent years , every term and its definition were discussed by the authors , and the other letters written by each , jointly criticised .
It would not be easy to overrate the influence which this work ( of which vol. i. was published in 1815 , vol. ii .
in 1817 , and vols .
iii .
and iv .
in 1826 ) had on Mr. Kirby 's subsequent entomological career .
Not only did it supply , under its various heads , suitable places for introducing from his note-book , his numerous detached observations during many years , on the manners , economy , &amp;c. of insects , which but for this opportunity would probably have been lost to the world , but the necessity of extending his former studies as to the anatomy and nomenclature of the parts of bees , to those of all the other orders , and of investigating many new points of their history , led to a great accession to his previous knowledge , which 6 bore amiple fruit both in the work in question and in his fitult onies .
Of these , following his admirable paper on his new order " Strepsiptera " and his " Century of Insects " in the 'Linnean Transactions , ' the most important was his ' Bridgewater Treatise , ' " On the History , H-abits and Instincts of Animals , " published in the 76th year of his age , in which he brought together a vast number of curious and important 'acts in the natural history of animals , and urged their application in proof of the wisdom and goodness of the Creator with that persuasive and pious ardour with which he always endeavoured to lead his readers , like himself , " to see God in all things .
" This is not the place to enumerate the titles of his numerous less important papers in the ' Zoological Journal , ' and other periodical works on natural history , and it must suffice to notice his last great work , the entomological portion of the ' Fauna Boreali-Americana ' of Sir John Richardson , published in a quarto volume in 1837 , in which he described the insects of the northernmost region of America with a largeness of grasp as to their generic and family relations , and a clearness and accuracy as to their specific characters , fully proving that at the very advanced age of nearly eighty , his entomological zeal and acumen had not diminished .
Some time before the publication of this work , Mr. Kirby , feeling that his entomological career was appropriately closed by it , gave his whole collection of British and Foreign Insects to the Entomological Society of London , of which he had been elected the Honorary President on its establishment in 1833-a noble gift , for which future entomologists , who will thus have access to the very species he described in his various works , will feel a deep debt of gratitude .
Constant and unwearied as were Mr. Kirbv 's entomological labours , they never encroached on his professional and social duties .
His parishioners of every class looked up to him as a father , on whose advice , sympathy and assistance they might confidently rely , an(i the whole tenor of his long life proved him to be at once one of the kindest of friends and most simple-minded , warm-hearted and pious of men .
Mr. Kirby was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1818 , and became one of the Linnean Society soon after its institution in 1788 .
Besides being Honorary President of the Entomological Society and President of the Ipswich Museum , he was a Fellow of the Geological and Zoological Societies , and an Honorary Member of several foreign societies .
He died July 4 , 1850 , aged ninety years and ten months , and was buried in the chancel of his church at Barham , SIR ROBERT PEEL was born on the 5th of February , 1788 , at Bury , in Lancashire .
His father was one of our greatest manufac , turers , a very wealthy and a very able man , remarkable for the vigour of his mind and the extent of his practical knowledge .
Sir Robert was educated at home with great care till of a proper age for a public school , and then was sent to Harrow , where , applying himself with unusual diligence , he made rapid progress in his studies , and in his seventeenth year entered Christchurch , Oxford .
The new examination statutes had been recently passed , subjecting all persons who proposed to take a degree to a public examination , with a graduated scale of honours proportioned to their proficiency , either in a mixed course of Classics and Aristotelian Philosophy , or a course of Mathematics and Physics , the first class being the highest honour .
Sir Robert Peel at once undertook to read for the highest honours in both courses , and was the first person who succeeded .
In 1808 he graduated , and after that he does not appear to have pursued his scientific studies further , but entering the House of Commons as representative of the Borough of Cashel , he devoted himself exclusively to politics .
He was soon appointed Under Secretary for the Home Department , and filling in succession the various offices , the highest prizes of a successful political career , he eventually became Prime Minister .
With science politicians in this country have not usually much to do : Sir Robert Peel , however , was a Member of the Committee in which the scientific pensions originated , and on several occasions as a Minister of the Crown he awarded scientific pensions .
Fully alive to the importance of science as the basis of the engineering and manufacturing pre-eminence of this country , he was in the constant habit of consulting scientific men whenever he had any new commercial measures to bring forward , or whenever a difficulty arose which called for scientific assistance ; but he does not seem to have devoted any portion of his leisure moments to scientific reading , or to have kept up the mathematical knowledge he had early acquired at Oxford ; and he appears to have regarded science with interest rather for the sake of its applications to practical purposes than as a high and ennobling pursuit .
Looking to Sir R. Peel 's great abilities , his commanding influence , his unrivalled powers as a man of business , his success at Oxford , which was evidence that he had then the power of using the keys of exact knowledge , it is natural that scientific men should have been anxious for his assistance in the management of the Associations for the Advancement of Science .
He was a Trustee of the British Museum , and was most efficient ; but uwhen it was intimated to him that there was a general wish that he should permit himself to be put forward more prominently either as a President of the British Association , or in some other way , he declined , stating that he was not qualified , as science was not one of his pursuits .
On the 29th of June , having been in the House of Commons till four o'clock in the morning , he attended an early meeting of the Royal Commissioners for the Exhibition of 1851 , assisting in the transaction of business with his usual vigour and judgement , and soon after the meeting he was thrown from his horse and received the fatal injuries of which he died on the 2nd of July .
On the motion of the Marquis of Northampton , seconded by Sir Harry Inglis , Bart. , the best thanks of the Society were tendered to the President for his excellent Address , and his Lordship was requested to permit the same to be printed and circulated to the Society .
The Statutes relating to the election of Officers and Council having been read , and Mr. Spence and Mr. Yates having , with the consent of the Society , been nominated Scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were collected .
The following Noblemen and Gentlemen were reported duly elected Officers and Council for the ensuing year : Presdent.-The Earl of Rosse , K.P. , M.A. Treasurer.-Lieut.-Col .
Edward Sabine , R.A. Secretaries .
Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. Thomas Bell , Esq. Foreign Secretary.--Captain W. H. Smyth , R.N. Other Members of the Council.-John Joseph Bennett , Esq. ; William Bowman , Esq. ; Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie , Bart. ; The Rev. Professor Challis , M.A. ; Lieut.-General Sir H. Douglas , Bart. , G.C.B. ; Sir P. de Malpas Grey Egerton , Bart. ; John Forbes , M.D. ; Marshall Hall , M.D. ; Gideon A. Mantell , Esq. , LL. D. ; Professor W. Hallows Miller , M.A. ; Sir R. Impey Murchison , M.A. ; Richard Phillips , Esq. ; Rt. Hon. Sir Frederick Pollock , M.A. ; George Rennie , Esq. ; Edward Solly , Esq. ; Lord Wrottesley .
The thanks of the Society were given to the Scrutators for their trouble in examining the lists .
The President appointed the following gentlemen Vice-Presidents of the Society:-Col .
Sabine , R.A. , Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie , Bart. , Sir P. de Malpas Grey Egerton , Bart. , Sir R. I. Murchison , Right Hon. Sir Frederick Pollock , and George Rennie , Esq. The following is a statement of the Receipts and Expenditure during the past year : Statement of the Receipts and Payments of the Royal Society between Nov. 30 , 1849 , and Dec. 1 , 1850 .
RECEIPTS .
s. d. Balance in the hands of the Treasurer at the last Audit .
553 49 Weekly Contributions , at one shilling ... ... 44 40 Quarterly Contributions at ?
4 ... ... ... ... 1102 00 17 Admission Fees ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
170 002 Compositions for Annual Payments at ?
60 ... ... ... .
120 004 Compositions for Annual Payments at ?
40 ... ... ... .
160 00 One year 's rent of estate at Mablethorpe : due at Michaelmas 1849 ... .0 ... , .
125 00 One year 's Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... .
3 13 0 One year 's rent of estate at Acton : due at Michaelmas 1850 ... ... ... ... ... 70 00 One year 's Income Tax ... ... ... ... . .
20 10 One year 's Fee farm rent of lands in Sussex : due at Michaelmas 1850 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
One year 's rent from Royal College of Physicians ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Dividends on Stock : One year 's dividend on ?
14,000Reduced 3 per cent. Annuities ... ... ... ... ... ... .
420 00 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
12 50 One year 's dividend on ?
6385 3s .
8d .
3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... ... 1 ... . .
191 66 Less Income Tax ... ... ... 572 Half a year 's dividend on ?
600 3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 900 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
053 121 70 67 19 19 430 -----407 15 2000Qg 185 19 48 14 9 One year and a half 's dividend on ?
3452 Is .
Id. 3 per cent. Consols , produce of sale of premises in Coleman Street ... ... ... . .
155 69 Less Income Tax * ... 4. .
4 10 6 -----150 16 3 Carried forward ... ... ... 3114 4 3 ?
s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... .
3114 43 Donation Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
5331 10s .
8d .
Consols 159 18 6 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
4 13 0 155 56 Rumford Fund .
Oneyear 's dividend on ?
24301s.bd .
Consols 72 17 9 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
219 Fairchild Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
1oo New South Sea Annuities ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Bakerian Lecture and Copley Medal Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
366 16s .
Id. New South Sea Annuities ... ... ... ... ... .
10 18 0 Less Income T'ax .
062 Wintringham Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
1200 Consols ... .
36 00 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
110 70 16 0300 10 11 10 ------34 19 0 Miscellaneous Receipts : Sale of Philosophical Transactions , Abstracts of Papers , and Catalogues of the Royal Society 's Library ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 298 93 Mablethorpe Tithe Suit Release ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
42 18 5 Total Receipts ... . ?
3730 43 PAYMENTS .
Fairchild Lecture.-The Rev. J. J. Ellis , for delivering the Fairchild Lecture for 1850 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Bakerian Lecture.-Thomas Graham , Esq. , for the Bakerian Lecture for 1850 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Books purchased : ?
s. d. Dulau and Co. : for Books ... ... ... .
43 32 Taylor : for ditto ... ... ... ... .
29 16 2 Nutt : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... . .
5 15 9 Gould : for ditto ... ... ... ... 12 12 0 Curtis : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... . .
21 00 Second-hand ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... 16 2 6 ... ?
s. d. 300400 128 , '7 Carried forward ... ... ... .
35 9 7 4 s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... 135 97 Salaries:-S .
II .
Christie , Esq. , one year , as Secretary. .
105 00 Thomas Bell , Esq. , one year , as Secretary. .
105 00 Ditto for Index to Phil. Trans ... ... ... . .
550 Col. Sabine , one year , as Foreign Secretary. .
20 00 Charles R. Weld , Esq. , one year , as AssistantSecretary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
300 00 Mr. White , one year , as Attendant ... ... . .
100 00 G. Holtzer , one year , as Porter ... ... ... .
30 00 Ditto , for extra Porterage ... ... ... ... . .
10 0 0 ... 675 50 Purchase of ?
600 Os .
Od .
3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... .
573 00 Fire Insurance , on the Society 's Property ... ... ... . .
45 16 Gratuity to Bank Clerks ... ... ... ... ... .
110 Bills : Taylors : Printing the Phil. Trans. , 1849 , part 2. .
217 13 3 Ditto , 1850 , part 1 ... ... ... ... ... .
168 13 3 Ditto , Proceedings , Nos. 73-75 ; Circulars , Lists of Fellows , Ballot-lists , Statement of Payments , and Minutes of Council ; Government Grant Committee , Notices , &amp;c. &amp;c. 135 18 0 ... ... 522 46 Basire : Printing Plates in Transactions , 1849 , part 2 95 12 4 Engraving , 1850 , part 1 ... ... ... ... . .
98 18 0 Ditto , part 2 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
86 40 ----280 14 4 Dinkel : For Lithography ... ... ... ... ... ... 880 Wing : For ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 16 00 Scharf : For ditto ... ... ... ... ... 15 00 F. Gyde : For Woodcutting ... ... ... ... . .
17 16 Walker : For Printing Charts ... ... ... ... ... 104 12 0 161 16 Bowles and Gardiner : Paper for the Phil. Trans. , 1849 , part 2 , and 1850 , part 1 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
188 20 Carried forward ... ... . .
2581 19 5 ?
s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... 2581 19 5 Gyde : Boarding and Sewing 800 Parts of Phil. Trans. , 1849 , part 2 ... ... ... ... .
11 40 Ditto , 1850 , part 1 ... ... 11 40 Ditto , Extra bind(ing ... ... ... ... . .
25 19 11 48 7 11 Tuckett : Bookbinding ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 40 50 Limbird : For Stationery ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 19 17 11 Saunderson : For Shipping Expenses ... ... ... ... ... .
11 19 1 Norman : For ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
3 16 3 Brecknell and Turner : Candles , and Lamp Oil ... ... ... ... ... .
35 46 Arnold : For Coals ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
30 70 Meredith : Mats , Brushes , Fire-wood , &amp;c. ... ... ... .
876 Cubitt : For repairs and relaying Carpets , &amp;c. ... . .
22 13 0 Slack : For Repairs ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 27 11 Shoolbred : For Carpets , Curtains and Matting ... ... . .
61 12 11 Woodward : For Cases and Shelves ... ... ... ... ... 3 19 6 Sharpus : For Cina ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
374 Humphries : For Livery ... ... ... ... ... , 5 10 0 Tea , Waiters , &amp;c. at Ordinary Meetings ... .
33 96 Higgins : Valuing Estate at Mablethorpe ... ... ... .
550 Ditto , draining ditto ... ... ... ... ... .
100 00 Seguier : For restoring two Portraits ... ... ... 880 Coombe : For Picture Frames ... ... ... ... .
400 400 10 5 Taxes : Land and Assessed Taxes ... ... ... ... . .
21 50 Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4 19 2 26 42 Carried forward ... . .
3057 1 11 Brought forward ... ... ... .
Rumford Fund : Mr. Wyon , for Medals ... ... ... ... ... .
64 00 M. Arago , Dividend ... ... ... ... . .
77 12 0 Donation Fund : Dr. Ilofmann , for Chemical Investigations ] Mr. Miller , for Meteorological Observations Mr. Newport , for Physiological Investigations Dr. Frankland , for Chemical Investigations [ 00 )0 50 00 50 00 50 00 Petty Charges : Postage and Carriage ... ... ... ... . .
43 42 Expenses on Foreign Packets , &amp;c. ... ... . .
12 6 11 Stamps ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 250 Charwoman 's Wages ... ... ... ... ... . .
27 16 6 Extra Cleaning ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
4 12 0 Miscellaneous expenses ... ... ... . .
34 71 Balance in the hands of the Treasurer ... ... .
November 30th , 1850 .
124 11 8 ... ... . .
156 18 8 Total ... . ? .
3730 43 ----:GEORGE RENNIE , Treasurer .
Estates and Property of the Royal Society .
Estate at Mablethorpe , Lincolnshire ( 55 A. 2 a. 2 r. ) .
Rent ?
110 per annum .
Estate at Acton , Middlesex ( 33 acres ) .
Rent ?
70 per annum .
Fee farm rent in Sussex , ?
19 4s .
per annum .
One-fifth of the clear rent of an estate at Lambeth Hill , from the College of Physicians , ?
3 per annum . ?
14,000 Reduced 3 per cent. Annuities . ?
19,399 7s .
lOd .
Consolidated Bank Annuities . ?
366 16s .
Id. New South Sea Annuities .
The Receipts during the past year , exclusive of the Balance , amounted to:- ?
3176 19s .
6d .
The Expenditure during the same period , exclusive of the sum of ?
600 Os .
Od .
invested in the Funds , was:- ?
3000 57 The Balance in hand , now belonging to the Donation Fund , is ?
11511s .
2d .
7 ?
s. d. 3057 1 11 --141 12 0 250 0 0 Annual Contributions .
1830 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ?
363 40 1831 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 286 00 1832 ... ... ... ... ... ... 255 60 1833 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
283 76 1834 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 318 18 6 1835 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
346 12 6 1836 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
495 00 1837 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
531 00 1838 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
599 40 1839 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
666 16 0 1840 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
767 40 1841 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
815 12 0 1842 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
910 80 1843 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
933 16 0 1844 ... ... ... ..1 ... ... . .
1025 16 0 1845 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1010 00 1846 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1074 00 1847 ... ... ... . .
1116 80 1848 ... ... ... ... ... .
1122 16 0 1849 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1130 16 0 1850 ... ... 1 .
, ... ... .
146 40 In the notice of admissions , those of the Right Hon. Lord John Russell , M.P. and the MAost Reverend The Lord Archbishop of Canterbury , at the ordinary Meeting of the Society , on the 25th January 1849 , were omitted .

