The following papers were read : 1 .
" Observations on the Nebulm .
" By the Earl of Rosse , Pres. R.S. , &amp;c. &amp;c. The object of this paper is to lay before the Royal Society an account of the progress which has been made , up to the present time , in the re-examination of Sir John Herschel 's Catalogue of Nebule published in the Phil. Trans. for 1833 .
Before describing any of the interesting objects the peculiar fea .
tures of which the extraordinary powers of the telescope employed for their examination has brought to our knowledge , the author enters upon some details concerning the instrument itself .
This telescope , which for aperture and the consequent power it possesses for the examination of faint details must for a considerable time , at least , remain unrivalled , has a clear aperture of 6 feet , with a focal length of 53 feet .
It has hitherto been used as a Newtonian , but by the easy application of a little additional apparatus it may be conveniently worked as a Herschelian ; and the author thinks it not improbable that , in the further examination of the objects of most promise with the full light of the speculum undiminished by a second reflexion , some additional features of interest will come out .
The tube reposes at its lower end upon a very massive universal joint of cast iron , resting upon a pier of stonework buried in the ground , and it is counterpoised so that it can be moved in polar distance with great facility .
The extreme range of the tube in right ascension at the equator is one hour , but greater as the polar distance diminishes .
By a little subsidiary apparatus the movement of the telescope can be rendered almost exactly equatorial ; but up to the present time this apparatus has not been used , as , without it , the movement was found to be sufficiently equatorial for such measurements as have been required .
The whole mounting was planned especially with a view of carrying on a regular system of sweeping ; but as yet the discovery of new nebulae has formed no part of the systematic work of the observatory , the known objects which require examination being so numerous that hitherto the observers have been fully occupied with them .
A clock movement was part of the original design , but as yet the telescope is not provided with one , and the want of it has not been very much felt .
Various micrometers have been tried , but , upon the w'hole , the common wire micrometer with thick lines has been found to succeed the best ; for the faint details of the nebulae are extinguished by any micrometrical contrivance which either diminishes the light of the telescope or renders the field less dark ; and thick lines have been found to be visible without illumination in the darkest night .
The telescope has two specula , one about three and a half , and the other rather more than four tons weight .
Each is provided with a system of levers to afford it an equable support .
Upon this system it was placed before it was ground , and has rested upon it ever since .
The systems of levers with the mode of applying them in the support of the speculumr are described in the paper , and also the precautions taken to guard against strain and consequent flexure of the metal .
Notwithstanding these precautions , undoubted evidences of flexure in the speculum have occasionally shown themselves .
It has not , however , been found that flexure , even to the extent of materially disfiguring the image of a large star , interferes 23Y much with the action of the speculum on the faint details of nebula , although it greatly lessens its power in bringing out minute points of light , and in showing resolvability where , under favourable circumstances , resolution had been previously effected .
It is stated that , il the spring of 18418 , the heavier of the two specula , for nearly three months , performed admirably , very rarely exhibiting the slightest indication of flexure .
It then remained inactive for some time before and after the solstice , and when observations with it were again commenced , it was found to be in a state of strain .
On cautiously raising it a little by screws , for the purpose of readjusting the levers , it was found that the unequal strain of the screws had produced permanent flexure , so that the speculum did not again perform well until after it had been reground .
Recently an alteration has been made in the mode of supporting the lighter of the two specula , which now rolls freely on eighty-one brass balls that support it nearly equably .
After referring to other causes of unequal action , among which the varying state of the atmosphere is one of the most serious , the author remarks that the Society will not be surprised should it be in his power at a future time to communicate some additional particulars , even as to the nebulae which have been most frequently observed .
The very beautiful sketches which illustrate the paper , are , it is remarked , on a very small scale , but are sufficient to convey a pretty accurate idea of the peculiarities of structure which have gradually become known .
In many of the nebule they are very remarkable , and seem even to indicate the presence of dynamical laws we may perhaps fancy to be almost within our grasp .
On examining these sketches , it will at once be remarked , as stated by the author , that the spiral arrangement so strongly developed in HI .
1622 , 51 Messier , is traceable more or less distinctly in several of the sketches .
More frequently indeed there is a nearer approach to a kind of irregular interrupted annular disposition of the luminous material , than to the regularity so striking in 51 Messier ; but it can scarcely be doubted that these nebula are systems of a very similar nature , seen more or less perfectly , and variously placed with reference to the line of sight .
The author adverts to the description of this nebula by Messier , Sir William Herschel and Sir John Herschel , and remarks , that taking the figure given by Sir John , and placing it as it would be seen with a Newtonian telescope , we shall at once recognise the bright convolutions of the spiral which were seen by him as a divided ring : thus with each increase of optical power the structure has become more complicated , and more unlike anything which we could picture to ourselves as the result of any form of dynamical law of which we find a counterpart in our system .
After pointing out the importance of measurements and the difficulty of taking them satisfactorily , the author states , that of a few of the stars with which the nebula is pretty well studded , measurements with reference to the principal nucleus were taken by his assistant Mr. Stony in the spring of 1849 , and that these have been repeated this year during the months of April and May , and also some measures taken from the centre of the principal nucleus to the apparent boundary of the spiral coils in different angles of position .
A hope is then expressed that , as several of these stars are no doubt within reach of the great instruments at Pulkova and at Cambridge , U.S. , the distinguished astronomers who have charge of them will consider the subject worthy of their attention .
The spiral arrangement of 51 Messier was detected in the spring of 1845 , and in the following spring an arrangement , also spiral , but of a different character , was detected in 99 Messier .
The author considers that 3239 and 2370 of Herschel 's 'Southern Catalogue ' are very probably objects of ' a similar character ; and as the same instrument does not appear to have revealed any trace of the form of 99 Messier , he does not doubt that they are muchl more conspicuous , and therefore entertains the hope that , whenever the southern hemisphere shall be re-examined with instruments of great power , these two remarkable nebulve will yield some interesting result .
The author briefly refers to the other spiral nebulae discovered up to the present time , which are more difficult to be seen , and to clusters in the exterior stars of which there appears to be a tendency to an arrangement in curved branches .
He then passes to the regular cumular nebulae , in which , although they are perceived at once to be objects of a very different character , there still seems to be something like a connecting link .
Among the nebulous stars two objects are stated to be well worthy of especial notice-No .
450 of Sir John I-Ierschel 's Catalogue , and i Orionis .
A representation of No. 450 , as seen with the sixfeet telescope , is given .
It has been several times examined , but as yet not the slightest indication of resolvability has been seen .
The annular form of this object was detected by Mr. Stony when observing alone , but Lord Rosse has since had ample opportunities of satisfying himself that the object has been accurately represented .
A representation of i Orionis is likewise given .
The remarkable feature in this object , the dark cavity not symmetrical with the star , was also discovered by Mr. Stony when observing alone with the three-feet telescope .
Lord Rosse has since seen it several times and sketched it .
A small double star n.f. i has similar openings , but are not so easily seen .
These openings appear to be of the same character as the opening within the bright stars of the trapezium of Orion , the stars being at the edges of the opening .
H-ad the stars been situated altogether within the openings , the suspicion that the nebula had been absorbed by the stars would perhaps have suggested itself more strongly .
As it is , the author thinks we can hardly fail to conclude that the nebula is in some way connected with these bright stars , in fact that they are equidistant , and therefore , if the inquiries concerning parallax should result in giving us the distances of these bright stars , we shall have the distance of this nebula .
The long elliptic or lenticular nebulae are stated to be very numerous , and three sketches of remarkable objects of this class are given .
In proceeding with the re-examination of Sir John Herschel 's Catalogue , several groups of nebulae have been discovered , in some of which nebulous connexion has been detected between individuals of the group , in dthers not .
Sketches of some have been made and measures taken ; but although the subject of grouped or knotted nebula is considered one of deep interest , it has not yet been proceeded with far enough to warrant entering upon it in the present paper .
The conclusion of the paper is occupied with remarks relating to each figure , in order to render the information conveyed by it more complete , and these are stated to be for the most part extracts selected from the Journal of Observations ,

