On the Construction of Specula of Six-feet Aperture ; and a selection from the Observations of Nebuler made with them .
By the Earl of RossE , KP .
, &amp;c. , F.1.S .
Received June 5 , --ead June 20 , 1861 .
THE period seems now to have arrived when it may be proper to lay before the Royal Society some further account of researches in sidereal astronomy , carried on with a Newtonian telescope of 6-feet clear aperture .
The observations extend over a period of about seven years , during which few favourable opportunities were lost ; still in our climate , where there is so much cloudy weather , , a year 's work , measured by the number of hours when nebulae can be effectively observed , .
is not considerable .
Here in winter the finest definition we have , and the blackest sky , is usually before eleven o'clock , after which the sky becomes luminous , and the fainter details of nebulse disappear .
In spring and autumn the change is neither so early nor so decided ; but the nights are shorter .
Guided by Sir JOHN HERSCHEL'S admirable Catalogue , we have examined almost all the brighter known nebule except a few in the neighbourhood of the pole , and a great proportion of the fainter nebule .
No search has been made for new nebulae ; very many , however , have been found accidentally in the immediate neighbourhood of known nebulae , but for the most part they were faint objects presenting no features of interest .
In every case where 'any peculiarity was detected , as for instance the convolution of a spiral , dark lines , or dark spaces , a rough sketch was made , and the more remarkable objects were selected for examination on favourable nights , when the details were carefully filled in , sometimes with the aid of the micrometer .
The very faint objects , and even the brighter , where there was a simple gradation of colour and no peculiarity of form , after having been examined on a tolerably good night , were rarely examined again .
In our ever-varying climate , when we employ high powers and large apertures , vision is impeded more or less by the unsteadiness of the air ; it is impeded also by haze ; and in both respects the condition of the air varies immensely from night to night , and from hour to hour .
The speculum also is not uniform in its action .
With such sudden alternations of temperature , in a moist climate , it is frequently dewed , and gradually tarnishes .
Artificially heating it would be a remedy ; but it would be an objectionable one , and we have not employed it .
From all these causes we can scarcely say that any one object has been examined under a combination of favourable circumstances ; still it is not now probable that with the present instrument any remarkable additions will be made to thet'details of nebulae already carefully sketched , except in very favourable states of the atmosphere .
Occasionally the air is so transparent and so steady , that magnifying power may be pushed very far ; and then , perhaps , something new comes out .
Such opportunities , however , are rare ; 4z2 and the progress made is necessarily so very slow , that I think it would be inexpedient longer to keep back this paper in the distant hope of making it in some respects more complete .
As to the instrument , a slight description of it has already been given in the 'Transactions ' for 1850 , but without details , and in the 'Transactions ' for 1840 the process employed in the construction of specula of 3-feet aperture was fully explained ; but in passing from specula of 3-feet aperture , and about twelve hundredweight , to specula of 6-feet aperture and four tons , although the same principles were our guide , difficulties were encountered which called for new contrivances and additional precautions .
It will , I think , be useful to give a short account of the process by which the 6-feet specula were made , and some details as to the mounting , supplying at the same time the best answers we can to the questions , so often put , What really are the optical powers of the instrument ?
What are the merits and demerits of its form of mounting , after an experience of more than ten years ?
Would it be possible to construct a larger one , and , if so , would there be anything gained ?
As there seems to be a desire to employ large instruments in different parts of the world , would it be possible to lay down instructions sufficiently precise to enable a mechanical engineer , without a previous apprenticeship , to undertake the construction of large instruments as a matter of business ?
About one ton and a quarter of speculum-metal can be melted in one crucible ; and up to that weight there is no difficulty whatever in casting a speculum , and the instructions in the 'Transactions ' for 1840 are amply sufficient to enable any engineer to do so .
Each time , however , the crucible increases in circumference from the pressure of the metal , and after seven meltings we found the increase to amount to 4 inches .
One ton and a quarter is therefore about the limit for a separate melting , and for larger specula we must employ several crucibles .
The tin and copper must be previously combined in smaller crucibles , holding not more than three or four hundredweight , as the heat required is much greater than in the second melting .
Three crucibles were employed in casting the 6-feet specula ; and we proceeded thus : The crucibles ( which had been cast by Messrs. DEWER of London , with the precautions detailed in my former paper ) were placed in three separate air-furnaces upon castiron stands about 8 inches deep , and of somewhat larger diameter than the crucibles , to protect them from the immediate current of air passing through the fire-bars .
A brick pillar from the bottom of the ash-pit relieved the furnace-bars from the weight they would .
otherwise have had to sustain .
The furnaces were round , 4 feet diameter , and 6 feet deep to fire-grate , --constructed as an ordinary air-furnace , with a door at the ashpit to regulate the admission of air .
The three furnaces were worked by one stack .
In heating a crucible , it is necessary that the temperature should be raised gradually , beginning at the mouth ; otherwise it will be very liable to crack .
To satisfy this condition , the crucibles ( of course empty ) having been placed on their supports , and the furnaces filled with good peat , the fires were lighted at the top ; and in about ten hours the crucibles were of a proper temperature for the reception of the speculum-metal , which of course was introduced gradually .
In about twenty-six hours from the time the fires were lighted the metal was ready for pouring .
Peat of good quality is about equal to wood in heating-power , when consumed in furnaces where there can be no accumulation of charcoal .
The mould was constructed on the principles explained in my former paper ; but , the scale being now so much enlarged , little matters of detail , which might have been before overlooked with impunity , were found to be of vital importance .
The bed of hoop-iron was 6 feet 6 inches diameter , and 4 inches thick .
We had not at the time a lathe sufficiently large to turn it ; and therefore it was turned horizontally , on the machine which was to grind and polish the future speculum .
To remove little irregiularities arising from the imperfection of the turning-apparatus , the bed of hoops was ground for two or three days with a disc about 6 feet diameter , composed of fragments of sandstone cemented together within an iron ring .
The annealing-oven was built on four arches communicating with two low chimneys .
The floor being laid upon the arches , could easily be heated to redness .
The interior of the oven was 8 feet by 10 .
For want of room , the brickwork at the ends was but 2 feet thick , the sides nearly 4 .
The thrust of the arch was , in the usual way , sustained by bolts .
The crucibles were raised from the furnaces by a crane and tongs just as at the Mint , and placed in rings swinging on trunnions a little above the centre of gravity of the mass .
The metal being of a proper temperature , levers were fixed upon the trunnions , and at a signal the crucibles were simultaneously inverted as rapidly as possible .
The operation of pouring was accomplished in about three seconds .
If the metal was not poured rapidly , the conducting-power of the iron surface is so great that partial solidification would take place , and the casting would be imperfect .
In about twenty minutes the metal was solid throughout ; the frame containing the sand forming the sides of the mould was then removed , and the speculum , being grasped by an iron ring , was drawn into its place by a capstan .
The temperature of the oven was red , just perceptible in the dark , about 900 ? .
All the apertures were then closed ; and in about six weeks the speculum was cool .
When removed from the oven the speculum was found perfect ; but the radius of curvature was much longer than it should have been , which rendered the grinding a very tedious operation..The cause , however , was obvious ; the floor of the oven had been laid carefully flat to prevent warping ; no other precaution had been taken ; indeed , no other had been necessary with the 3-feet specula .
The speculum was removed from the oven to the bed of supporting levers in the following manner:-A pit was dug about 4 feet deep , near the oven , commanded by a crane .
The speculum , weighing about four tons , was drawn out of the oven in the same way that it had been drawn into it .
Planks were provided for the speculum to slide upon to the edge of the pit , into which it was lowered gently , the ring still grasping it .
The speculum was now resting principally upon its edge , the face supported by the side of the pit .
By means of wooden handspikes , and with little effort , the speculum was made to rest entirely on its edge , bearing upon the soft earth .
Two bars , 7 feet long each , and 2 inches square , one of them cranked in the centre , were placed against the back in the shape of a cross .
To prevent metallic contact , the bars had been bound round with woollen cloth .
Strong planks were placed against the face , and screw bolts were passed through the planks and projecting ends of the bars .
The speculum was thus encased , and was easily raised by the crane face up .
In the mean time a strong wooden platform had been made with three iron pillars securely fixed in it , about 2 feet long each , and so disposed as to support the speculum with the least strain .
The frame carrying the supporting levers , to be hereafter described ( Plate XXIV : fig. 1 ) , was placed upon this platform , the three iron pillars passing through interstices in the levers ; and the speculum was lowered till it rested upon the pillars , the levers being considerably below it .
The bars and planks encasing the speculum were then removed , and the frame and levers raised by the crane till the speculum was completely supported by them .
It now rested on its levers , and was taken to the grinding-machine .
I have been thus minute in describing the means we had employed in removing the speculum from the oven , turning it over , and placing it on its bed of levers , as in the arts they have never to deal with a material at once so heavy and so brittle ; and we were guided by long experience , which others may not have had .
This speculum had been more than a month upon the grinding-machine , and was just ready to be polished , when it was broken by an accident .
Immediate preparations were made for recasting it .
While the speculum had been in the annealing-oven we had finished a powerful lathe for turning the grinding-tools , with a slide-rest moving in the proper curve .
The bed of hoops was placed upon that lathe , and its radius of curvature adjusted : the floor of the oven also was cut roughly to the same curve .
As we were anxious to guard , as far as possible , against contingencies , and to secure a working speculum with the least delay , we were satisfied to employ an alloy somewhat lower than on the former occasion , and an ingot of speculum-metal was added which contained more than the proper proportion of copper .
A little additional copper diminishes the brittleness considerably , while it increases the liability to tarnish .
The speculum was successfully cast , but the surface was covered with minute fissures , about the breadth of a horse-hair .
These we resolved to grind out .
The grinding was very tedious , partly owing to the metal being a little below standard , and partly to the deepness of the fissures .
After the first day 's grinding , the fissures , which previously were scarcely perceptible , became much enlarged , owing to the edges chipping away ; and the whole surface thus became , as it were , covered with large wrinkles .
The process of abrasion is necessarily extremely slow , as both the velocity and the pressure are kept within very narrow limits , to prevent the evolution of heat , which would crack the speculum .
The grinding continued for nearly two months , the machinery working for part of the time at night ; and a few of the fissures were so deep that even then the traces of them were perceptible .
The speculum was then polished ; and its performance fully equalled our expectations .
A telescope intended to be constantly employed requires two specula .
We had now leisure to encounter delays and difficulties in endeavouring to procure a second speculum Mt , MALLET ON THE TRANSIT-VELOCITY OF EARTHtQUAKE WAVES .
free from the defects of the one already finished .
We had satisfied ourselves that the fissures were owing to our having employed the bed of hoop-iron in the state in which it was when taken from the turning-lathe .
The surface , though nicely turned , was not as smooth as the surface of a solid disc would have been : a slight yielding at the edges of the hoop-iron , and a slight spreading under the pressure of the tool , had produced little irregularities ; and although the surface had been carefully " black-washed , " the speculum-metal had encountered too much friction in the act of contracting after it had become nearly solid , and thus had been filled with superficial rents .
On the first occasion there had been no fissures , but the bed of hoop-iron had been ground ; the remedy was therefore obvious .
The third speculum was successfully cast ; but on opening a small aperture , and looking into the oven before it was quite cold , it was observed that the speculum was cracked through the middle .
The temperature of the speculum was found not to be quite uniform ; and that circumstance , taken in connexion with the direction of the crack , seemed to point out the cause : the ends of the oven , from want of room , had been made thinner than the sides .
The first speculum had probably been strained by the same cause , and rendered more fragile .
The oven being ready , an attempt was made to ast a fourth speculum , which failed .
We had each time , before the bed of hoop-iron became cold , saturated it with tallow to prevent the formation of rust between the hoops , which would have rendered the surface impervious to air ; but just before it was again employed it was made red-hot , and the tallow burned out .
On this occasion , by an oversight , the bed of hoop-iron had not been sufficiently heated , and there remained some of the tallow unconsumed , which , being vaporized in large quantities , produced any ebullition which made the casting as porous as pumice-stone .
This speculum , of course , was not annealed , and the following day it was in small fragments .
The fifth speculum , being in every respect a perfect casting , without the slightest blemish and of a proper curvature , was ground and polished in about a month .
It is desirable that the bed of hoop-iron when the metal is poured should be warm , so as to prevent the possible deposition of moisture ; but if much hotter than this , it at once dries up the sand , and it is difficult to make the mould secure .
In the whole of the operation I have described , one of the difficulties is to time each stage .
If the mould was prepared too long , the bed of hoop-iron might become cold and damp ; on the other hand , if the mould was not ready when required , it might be hazardous to keep the crucibles so long at the pouring-heat .
It may , perhaps , be as well to add that the crucibles , when in the pouring-gimbals , require to be thoroughly skimmed , as particles of coal falling upon the hoop-iron would be immediately entangled in metal not rising to the top : the skimming should be done promptly , lest the metal fall below the proper temperature .
Any considerable delay in drawing the speculum , when solid , into the annealing-oven would be fatal ; therefore there should be ample capstan power to overcome the difficulty which usually is experienced in detaching the speculum from the mould .
685 The last speculum is but 39 tons , and is therefore considerably weaker than its predecessor ; and by carefully comparing the two specula at low altitudes , we have been made thoroughly sensible of the great importance of strength in preventing flexure .
There are little irregularities in the action of the supporting levers , which are much more injurious to the definition of the weaker speculum than the other ; and although these irregularities may be susceptible of further diminution , I think there would still be sufficient gain to make it worth while to cast a third speculum considerably heavier than either of the others .
In the 'Philosophical Transactions ' for 1840 I have endeavoured to explain the principle upon which the bed of hoop-iron acts ; some , however , seem to have attributed larger effects to it than I have , and of a different kind .
It has been supposed by some that a molecular change takes place , somewhat similar to that which has been observed in the case of very small portions of speculum-metal rapidly cooled , while by others the change has been compared to the " chilling of cast iron , " to which I think it bears no analogy : cast iron when chilled becomes almost as hard as hardened steel ; there is an exudation of graphite-in fact , a chemical change the exact nature of which seems to be imperfectly understood : there is no such change in speculum-metal , it becomes actually softer .
To obtain sound castings , all which seems necessary is so to manage the process that solidification must begin at one surface and proceed regularly to the other .
By employing the bed of hoop-iron the object is effected with certainty ; but the engineer may employ other means , perhaps sufficient for the purpose , which , under varying local circumstances , may be cheaper and more convenient .
Possibly some useful hints may be gathered from a slight glance at the successive steps by which we obtained a clear view of the principle by which the founder should be guided in making large castings of speculum-metal .
About the year 1827 , on commencing a series of experiments , on speculum-metal , I procured a small flat speculum from Mr. TULLY , and two similar specula from Mr. CUTHBERT , as specimens of the art in its most advanced state .
I also procured from Mr. CUTHBERT several small unwrought castings of about two ounces weight to practice upon .
Mr. TULLY'S specula were cast in the ordinary way in sand , and polished with rouge : but Mr. CUTHBERT'S were cast in contact with iron , and so cooled instantaneously ; they were polished with putty .
All the specula for Mr. CUTHBERT'S microscopes were made in a similar manner .
He was under the impression that speculummetal cooled instantaneously was more suitable for his purpose than common speculummetal-that it was sounder , more compact , and resisted better the action of emery .
These specula were accidentally exposed to the air of the laboratory for a considerable time ; and at length we remarked that Mr. CUTHBERT'S specula had somewhat lost their polish , while TULLY'S speculum was as bright as ever .
The inferiority of CUTHBERT'S specula we attributed to an excess of copper , but with further experience we came to a different conclusion .
We had several early samples of chilled speculum-metal , and corresponding samples of the same metal cooled gradually .
They were obtained in this way : In our experiments on the alloys of tin and copper , we were in the habit of taking out a sample after each addition of till .
When cool , a small piece was broken off the sample , and the fracture and colour examined ; the remainder was then hastily ground and polished on a succession of revolving laps .
The experiments were very numerous ; and to save the time lost while the sample was cooling , we at first applied water cautiously , and then adopted the device of pouring the sample into a ring laid upon the face of an anvil .
Samples of a few ounces weight frequently cracked upon the anvil , but with water they usually flew into many pieces .
We soon , however , found that the attempt to save time by cooling the samples instantaneously was a step in the wrong direction , as it was only from samples cooled slowly that reliable information could be obtained as to the qualities of the future casting .
There was , however , this result , that we at length came to the conclusion that instantaneous cooling was unfavourable to permanence of polish .
In the progress of these experiments we also observed that the rods of speculum-metal formed in the air-holes of damp sand-moulds , also the thin plates formed at the junction of the upper and lower moulds , were of unusual strength .
We were not then aware of the fact that alloys of tin and copper are softened by sudden cooling , which would have accounted for the liability to tarnish , and the great increase of strength .
Mr. POTTER , in Sir DAVID BREWSTERB'S 'Journal ' for 1831 , directs attention to the apparent hardness and soundness of speculum-metal cooled instantaneously ; but he does not appear to have operated upon a larger scale than Mr. CUTHBERT , his castings not exceeding 1ounce .
Mr. M'CULLAGH seems also to have noticed the same facts ; and , indeed , it is not likely they could have been unnoticed by any one who had been engaged much in speculum-casting ; but the obvious fact that any considerable mass of an alloy with such large expansions and contractions as speculum-metal , and so brittle , must fall to pieces if cooled rapidly , would have forbidden the attempt to manufacture large telescopes with such a material .
In all our earlier experiments the castings were made in damp sand , precisely as in the common process of casting iron or brass .
Where the founder , however , aims at the best results , especially in brass-casting , he dries the mould : he thus escapes the mischief sometimes arising from the evolution of hydrogen , which , unlike steam , makes its way through the sand with difficulty .
Steam in small quantity does no mischief , because it enters the interstices of the sand , where it is immediately condensed .
In the hopes of better results we dried the moulds ; but , strange to say , the castings were less perfect .
At the low temperature at which specula are cast , the tin acts but very little on water , and there is no injurious evolution of hydrogen ; therefore , in that respect , there was nothing gained by drying the mould , while we found , after a great number of specula had been broken up , that in dry sand the progress of solidification had been less regular than in damp sand , and that this was owing to the circumstance that in dry sand the solidification had commenced irregularly in all directions , while in damp sand the upper surface had remained longer fluid than the lower surface , especially where the specula were of considerable thickness .
To explain this , it is only necessary to remark that , when metal enters the damp-sand mould , heat will be immediately abstracted from it ; and as it rises in the mould by each successive addition of hot metal , it will somewhat dry the upper sand-surface before the metal reaches it .
When , therefore , the mould is full , the lower surface will be cooler , than the upper : this does not happen when the mould is dry .
In casting very thin specula , there is no time for successive actions ; the upper and lower surfaces solidify simultaneously , and there is a tendency to separation in an intermediate plane .
In some cases the separation was so complete , that a slight concussion actually divided the speculum into two discs .
In discs of brass there is often , from the same cause , a very thin plane of porous metal running through the centre ; and where this occurs in the plate of an air-pump , :a bouching is inserted to cut off the communication between the external air and the central aperture .
Keeping these facts in view , it would be naturally expected that by employing very open sand , as damp as possible , for the lower surface of the mould , and dry sand for the remainder , the best results would be obtained : and such was the case ; and where other means are not at hand , specula of 10 or 12 inches diameter can thus 'be easily obtained , provided they are of considerable thickness .
This device , however , was not successful when we endeavoured to procure thin plates to face the compound -speculum described in the Transactions ' for 1840 ; the solidification of the upper and lower surface was too nearly simultaneous , and therefore there was irregular contraction : consequently a metallic surface was employed , from which the plate was removed the moment it was solid .
There is yet another method of procuring excellent specula of moderate dimensions , which was dismissed , perhaps , in too summary a manner in the account of experiments in the ' Transactions ' for 1840 .
It has this to recommend it , that it can be carried out by persons who have had no experience in the management of melted metal ; and it is desirable to smooth the way , as far as possible , for beginners , who may , perhaps , by early success , be induced to proceed further .
A cast-iron mould can easily be made at any foundry ; it must be at least two and a half times as deep as the required speculum ; it is to be placed in a temporary air-furnace , resting , like a muffle , upon two very strong deep bars , and is to be made perfectly level .
The grate should be made of moveable bars , which can be withdrawn at the conclusion of the process , so that the fire may fall into the ash-pit .
If charcoal is employed , the draught will be sufficient to produce the necessary heat without a chimney .
The proper quantity of speculum-metal , in pieces , is then introduced , and the cover put on .
It is important that no pieces of charcoal should get in before the metal is melted , as they will often be found in the face of the speculum .
As soon as the metal is melted , the cover is taken off , and the moveable bars are drawn out .
The metal is then stirred with a broad flat tool , passed every .
where over the surface of the mould to detach air-bubbles , and without loss of time a jet of water is thrown against the bottom of the mould , through a rose with exceedingly wmall holes , and distributed evenly .
The action of the water must be suspended the THEM:.t moment the temperature of the'mould is reduced to a dark red , ' lestit should crack ; but the operation should be repeated at intervals of a few seconds , to keep the reduction : of temperature permanent .
As soon as the metal is solid at the surface , the furnace is to be closed up completely , and the speculum is thus annealed , the furnace acting as an annealing-oven .
The blocks of speculum-metal , which were sawn up into plates , as described in the 'Transactions ' for 1840 , were made in this way , excepting that air was employed instead of water .
A large hand-fan furnishes a sufficient blast ; and when such an instrument is within reach , air is perhaps preferable to water , as it is more easily : managed .
The cracking of the moulds ( the difficulty we encountered in the experiments ' alluded to ) we subsequently ascertained was owing to excess of water .
It is important that the temperature of the metal should not pass the melting-point , to prevent the large development of a crystalline structure .
Whether specula are cast according to the first process , when the moulds are of damp sand and solidification commences at the lower surface in the way I have explained-or by the second process , when the moulds are of iron and solidification also commences at the lower surface , owing to the action of some cooling medium , through the iron-or by the third process , when the same effect is produced by the exterior:mass of iron which prevents the interior surface of the mould from attaining the temperature of fusing ; speculum-metal , the result is very similar : there is the same molecular arrangement ' more or less developed , and the fracture presents the same characters : the axes of the crystals are .
directed to the cooling surface , in obedience to the general law , stated by Mr. MALLET in the following words , that when the particles of crystalline solids * " con-l solidate under the influence of heat in motion , their crystals arrange and group themselves with their principal axes in lines perpendicular to the cooling or heating surfaces of the solid-that is , in the lines of direction of the heat-wave in motion , which is the direction of least pressure within the mass .
" It is scarcely necessary to add that there is no resemblance in this molecular arrangement to that of a small speculum cooled instantaneously .
Enough has now been said to enable a skilful founder to follow the course which we -pursued in casting specula of 6-feet aperture .
The principles are , in fact , the same which he must have had in view in executing works of unusual difficulty in cast iron : with speculum-metal , however , the difficulties are far greater , and therefore every part of the operation must be more rigorously governed by sound principles .
The photograph of the speculum on its supporting levers ( Plate XXIV .
: fig. 1 ) will give perhaps all the information which may be required as to the general nature of the arrangement .
The ring in which the speculum is suspended was remo-ved , as also some of the apparatus connected with the levers , to prevent confusion .
The diagram fig. 2 represents in plan the arrangement of the levers .
The cast-iron carriage , of about 1 ton weight , carries three ball-and-socket joints , directly under the centre of gravity of three equal sectors , into which the speculum may be supposed to be divided .
The centre of the ball is in the centre of gravity of the triangle , not merely as respects its plane , but thickness also .
These three triangles , which we call primary , carry at their angles , by ball-and-socket joints , nine secondary triangles , supported at their respective centres of gravity ; and they , in a similar way , carry twenty-seven tertiary triangles , each carrying three gun-metal balls of 1-1 inch diameter , --in all , eighty-one balls , which support twenty-seven equal portions of the speculum .
Between the balls and the speculum twenty-seven thin brass plates are interposed , attached to the speculum by pitched cloth , not so much with a view of giving support between the balls , which would probably be quite unnecessary , but to make a smooth surface for the balls to roll upon without grinding the back of the speculum true .
In each ball there is a small hole , and a thin brass wire is inserted in it , and secured with a wooden peg ; this wire passes through a small hole in the lever , and is attached to a thin brass spring at the back , which yields as the ball rolls , and brings it back to its proper place whenever the ball is free from pressure .
Without this contrivance , a very slight jerk , when the plane of the speculum is nearly vertical , would cause the balls to fall from their places .
In practice , the motion of the balls is of course very slight .
It is evident that so long as the speculum is horizontal , equal portions are carried equably , and it is almost as free from strain as if it was floating on mercury .
As soon , however , as we incline the speculum to the horizon , the lever apparatus does not act so perfectly .
It will have been observed that the levers are not in the same plane ; and this is disadvantageous in two ways : first , although the primary triangles balance in every position on the ball-and-socket joints , and therefore are indifferent as to position , the centres of the ball-and-socket joints carrying the secondary triangles are unavoidably above the plane of the centres of the primary supporting balls , and still more are the ball-and-socket joints carrying the tertiary triangles ; consequently the secondary and tertiary triangles , by their weight , exert a force tending to make the planes of the primary triangles rotate in a vertical plane , and so disturb the equilibrium .
The tertiary triangles in a similar manner , but to a much less injurious extent , act upon the secondary triangles .
The lever apparatus , deducting the primary triangles , weighs about 600 lbs. ; were it lighter it would not have the necessary solidity ; and the disturbing action of the weight is so considerable that , when not counterbalanced by subsidiary contrivances , the action of the speculum at low altitudes is much impaired by it .
The contrivance we employ is a system of levers , connected by wires with the ball-and-socket joints which support the secondary triangles , and acting at right angles to the plane of the speculum .
The primary triangles , thus relieved from all lateral strain , are in a condition to do their duty effectively ; and that seems to be sufficient in practice .
Of course another set of levers might be attached to the ball-and-socket joints supporting the tertiary triangles ; and then the whole system would be perfectly counterpoised in every position ; that , however , seems to be scarcely necessary .
It is evident that , were it not for the balls interposed between the levers and the speculum , any lateral motion of the speculum would introduce a disturbing force which would destroy the equilibrium .
Lateral motion , however , must always exist in the different positions of the telescope , owing to the elasticity of materials ; and it must act injuriously in some degree , in proportion to the force required to move the speculum on the balls .
Great care has been taken to make the fittings of the ring in which the speculum hangs as perfect as possible , and to connect its joints and bearings with the iron carriage , so as to reduce the lateral motion of the speculum to the smallest possible quantity .
We have not tried Mr. LASSEL'S ingenious arrangement for relieving the edge pressure .
Unless there were holes half through the speculum the experiment could not be fairly tried .
Our 3-feet specula are also suspended in a ring , and are supported on fewer points by the lever apparatus , which , at a slight sacrifice of theoretical accuracy , has been thrown into one plane .
We have rarely perceived any flexure of importance , except where the action of the levers had been impeded by rust ; but the 3-feet specula , which weigh about thirteen hundredweight , are very much stiffer than the 6-feet specula , as is obvious on common mechanical principles .
Upon the whole , I am inclined to think there is a better prospect of improving the definition of very large specula by increasing the original stiffness , than by endeavouring still further to eliminate slight disturbing forces .
The 6-feet specula were ground with an iron tool , divided into squares , precisely as the 3-feet specula .
The squares were larger , about 2 inches each side , and were not formed by cutting but by casting .
A tool cast from the same pattern was employed as a polisher , but the surface of the squares was cut up by turning , so as to leave no more than half an inch of continuous surface .
The tools weigh about one ton one hundredweight each , and the iron is so disposed in them as to produce the utmost amount of stiffness .
The photograph supplies all details ( Plate XXIV .
figs. 3 &amp; 4 ) .
In grinding , about two-thirds of the weight is at first taken off by a counterpoise acting through a system of levers attached to it in thirty-six points , on the same principle as the levers which support the speculum .
As the process proceeds the contact becomes more general , the friction increases , and there is more heat developed ; therefore the counterpoise is increased , till towards the conclusion the unbalanced weight of the grinder is reduced to about two hundredweight .
Notwithstanding the great strength of the tool , we found that if after the grinding was over it was suspended by its centre , the flexure , after a week or two , became so great that on replacing it on the speculum and regrinding with it , the action commenced at the edge ; it is therefore always , when not in use , suspended by its levers .
The curvature of this tool was adjusted in the ordinary way by gauges .
These , as they were to be employed in the adjustment of the speculum to focus , were made with great care .
One side of each gauge was first made into a straight edge , by the well-known scraping process of Mr. WHITWORTIH , and the two were then very slightly ground for a few minutes with fine emery to remove the marks of the scraper , but no more .
Ordinates were then set out , an inch apart , and marked to the calculated length by means of an instrument applied to the straight edge , very similar to the joiner 's gauge , but made of brass , with a fine scale and vernier .
Through the extremities of the ordinates the curve was traced by means of a steel point , guided by a 691 curved rule about 6 inches long .
A pair of these little rules were made from calculated ordinates , and ground together .
In adjusting the gauges to the curve so traced , nothing was employed but the file and scraper .
The gauges were then slightly ground together with the finest emery and in very small quantity , and care was taken to distribute it evenly with a camel's-hair pencil .
The grinding-tool was from time to time adjusted roughly to the curvature on a turning-lathe , which was accomplished with great facility , as the slide-rest was governed by a guide of the same curvature as the gauge , and there were adjusting-screws in the face-plate , by which the tool was made to run perfectly true each time it was replaced .
When the curvature of the speculum was nearly exact , the remaining little changes in the radius of the tool were made with the file .
We had no means of optically measuring the focus of the 6-feet mirrors while on the engine ; therefore further precautions were taken .
A brass wedge was made , about 3 inches long , at one end -6-yth less than the verse sine of the circle of curvature , and at the other end -hoth greater .
This wedge was cut into three parts , equal , greater , and less than the verse sine .
A straight edge was then laid upon the speculum ; and it was considered perfect when one of these just touched the straight edge , another passed under it without touching , and the third did not pass at all .
So accurately was the adjustment as to focus made in this way , that neither of the specula differed from the calculated focus more than 1inch .
The machinery is precisely on the same principle as that which we employ in working 3-feet specula , already described in the 'Transactions .
' Instead of belts there are chains , working in V grooves .
The driving-wheels are of wood , in several layers , the grain being disposed radially .
The chains are made tight by straining-pulleys , and act perfectly .
This species of machinery is neither compact nor elegant : when originally designed , its principal recommendation was facility of construction and facility of alteration , both important qualities where it was doubtful whether machinery unguided by hand , acting independently of the sense of touch , would answer at all .
Some are surprised that machlinery so rude should be employed , and successfully , in a mechlanical operation where the utmost precision is required , a precision almost fabulous , and they compare it with the beautiful machinery in the mills where textile fabrics are made : but in figuring specula everything depends upon the principle ; and so long as certain motions are communicated to the tool and speculum , machinery can do no more .
The tool is raised and lowered by a screw passing through a carriage which moves upon a railway over-head upon the principle of the travelling crane , and the same mechanical arrangement removes the speculum with its lever supports from the grinding-machine to the truck upon which it is conveyed to the telescope .
The screw is obviously the best mechanical power to employ , as its action begins and ends slowly , and there is therefore less danger of breaking the speculum .
As a further precaution in raising or lowering the grinding-tool , thin wooden wedges between the tool and speculum are gradually introduced and withdrawn .
In the final adjustment of the speculum to focus , the operation is much facilitated by a judicious management of the second eccentric ; small variations in the radius of curvature are thus produced with great facility : where , however , there has been a considerable departure from the length of stroke necessary to produce a spherical figure , the speculum requires to be ground for twelve hours , or perhaps much longer , with the proper motions , before it is fit to be polished .
Mr. WHITWORTH is of opinion that greater general accuracy of surface is obtainable by scraping than by grinding : the late Mr. A. Ross , as high an authority as any one in everything relating to practical optics , held very nearly the same language .
He attributed the defective action of the grinding-process to the unequal distribution of the grinding-powder , which , accumulating at the centre by capillary attraction , and at the edges by mechanical action , unduly shortened the radius of curvature at the centre and lengthened it at the edge .
He employed the grinding-powder dry in producing flat glass surfaces , and believed he thus obtained a better result .
It appears to me that by cutting up one of the surfaces into minute squares , in the way we have so long practised , the causes of unequal action are eliminated .
The subject is a very important one , as there appears to be no other probable means of working solid materials into accurate surfaces for optical purposes than by some modification of the ordinary process of grindiig and polishing .
In the 'Philosophical Transactions ' for 1840 , there is a sketch of a grinding-tool such as we employed in the construction of 3-feet specula ; but I have scarcely noticed experiments on grinding , passing at once to the more important subject ( as it appeared to me at the time ) , that of polishing .
Something useful , however , may perhaps be extracted from our record of very numerous experiments on grinding plalne and curved surfaces .
In my very early experiments , the ordinary process for procuring a true plane by grinding three planes in alternate pairs was often repeated .
Till we adopted the expedient of cutting up two of the surfaces into minute squares , our success was very limited .
That device apparently removed all the difficulty , and we were then enabled to make large flat mirrors which bore the optical test well in every part , which was not the case before .
When one of the surfaces is divided into minute portions , with sufficiently large and deep intervals , there can be no capillary action such as that described by Mr. A. Ross ; neither can there be an accumulation of grinding-powder anywhere , because an immediate escape for it is provided ; and if the grinding-powder is employed in very small quantities , and no addition is made to it for three or four hours before the termination of the process , there will be a high degree of comminution , and only just a sufficient number of minute particles to keep up the abrading action , probably nowhere more than a-single layer .
We may form some idea of the accuracy thus attainable by examining.with a microscope the particles of emery so comminuted .
No parts can be acted upon strongly except where they deviate from a spherical surface ; too violent contact then , and consequently a destructive action , is prevented by the moisture interposed .
Under such circumstances , with unyielding surfaces , time obviously cannot enter as a disturbing element , because there is no abrasion when there is no close contact .
* HOLTZAPrrEL , Mechanical Manipulation , vol iii .
p. 1229 .
693 The principle of Mr. WHITWORTH'S method may obviously be carried out , with glass or speculum-metal , by employing small laps and grinding-powders instead of the scraper ; but as a scraped surface consists of a maze of curves of varying flexure , a surface ground in detail must always , I should think , in some degree partake of the same character , and , though it may not anywhere deviate much in general outline from the required form , minute deviations must exist in every part .
M. FOUCAULT seems to have been successful in improving surfaces of moderate dimensions , by his ingenious process of testing and polishing in detail ; how far such a process will succeed in improving large surfaces which have been in the first instance properly wrought , has not , as far as I am aware of , been ascertained .
Our practice always has been to repolish when the surface , tested by the method described in the 'Transactions ' for 1840 , has proved to be defective .
If a few glaring defects are at once seen , the whole surface is always faulty , though in a less degree .
The only change we have made in the polishing-machinery consists in substituting an elliptic for a circular wheel in driving the second eccentric .
The major axis is at right angles to the throw of the eccentric , and is to the minor axis as three to one .
The band is merely a rope working in a deep groove ; and a straining pulley , freely acted upon by a weight , secures the necessary tightness in all positions of the ellipse .
The obvious effect of this arrangement is to diminish the time the polisher overhangs the speculum , and so to reduce , to some extent at least , a source of error .
We now employ in every case a separate tool for grinding and polishing , which is a great convenience , especially as we always regrind the speculum after it has been brought in from the telescope .
There seems to be no doubt that in some cases considerable change of figure had taken place .
The grinding-tool , when true , will be bronzed all over , and the speculum , when examined in every position as to light , will appear uniform .
We still consider the process of polishing described in detail in the 'Transactions ' for 1840 as the best , with this addition , that we employ a combination of brown soap and ammonia , instead of pure water , during the latter part of the operation .
We had then tried this lubricating mixture but too recently to feel justified in recommending it .
The great objection , however , to the whole process is the difficulty of carrying it out .
I have had communications from time to time from many persons in whose hands it has failed ; and I am not surprised ; for although everything has usually gone on smoothly when we were in the midst of experiments and in constant practice , yet after the lapse of even one year , when we have had occasion to repolish a speculum , there have been often disappointments .
The difficulty arises from the necessity of employing two strata of resinous matter , one so hard , and both so thin .
If in preparing the polisher the hard resinous composition is suffered anywhere to come in contact with the iron , the polisher will not retain its figure , and there will be a failure .
A small chip of wood in the pitch will produce the same effect .
If the water or lubricating mixture is supplied too sparingly , the polisher will begin to dry in spots , the rouge and abraded matter will collect there , and the thin stratum of pitch will be compressed till the accumulated matter-resting upon the iron will act just as a chip of wood .
If the lubricating fluid is a little in excess the rouge will run loose , the very hard resinous surface being able to retain but a very small quantity of it , and the incipient polish will disappear .
An excess of rouge acts in the same way , while , if the rouge is not in sufficient quantity to keep up the cutting-action , the surface of the speculum loses its truth .
The process therefore requires : great attention throughout .
Bthth e temperature of the water in which the speculum revolves and the temperature of the room , of course , must be properly regulated .
The process does not proceed well unless the moisture between the speculum and polisher gently evaporates , so that drops of fresh fluid may be added from time to time , to carry away the undue collection of abraded matter .
As the hygrometric state of the air varies so will the quantity of fluid required to lubricate the surface ; and that would be a source of considerable embarrassment , were it not that in dry states of the air the dew-point can be adjusted by a jet of steam .
When the air is very damp we have no practical remedy ; and therefore the operation islnot then attempted .
We have often endeavoured to evade these difficulties ; by employing a surface less hard , supported by a thicker substratum of pitch ; but there has been an evident sacrifice of ttruh of surface and figure , and we have failed in obtaining that very fine definition which resulted from the old process when perfectly successful .
By the old process , a speculum of 3-feet aperture and 27-feet focus has been frequently made so perfect that in favourable states of the air it has defined sharply the dots and figures on a watchdial distant 100 feet , the eye-glass being a single lens of one-eighth of an inch focus : such a speculum in ordinary weather perhaps does little more than one that is inferior to it , both , for instance , showing well the sixth star in the ; trapezium of Orion ; but in extremely fine nights it displays its powers by resolving nebulae in which no traces of resolution had been seen before , and by concentrating the light of minute stars and so rendering them visible .
If the vivid polish of a speculum employed in the op2en air was as enduring as that of glass , the difficulty of the process and its uncertainty without continual practice would have been no great objection to it ; but when , on the contrary , it is necessary to repeat the process at intervals perhaps so long that minute details are not fresh in the memory , the task becomes the labour of SIsYPHUS. .
A very fine speculum loses much of its light and someof its truth of surface by being repeatedly dewed , especially if it has been several:times cleaned , and for the ordinary work we are engaged in will be inferior to:a moderately good speculum which is quite fresh .
The preparation of a polisher in the way formerlydescribed is one of the great difficulties ; a certain : degree of manual dexterity is required , which can only be obtained by practice and kept up by practice .
For many years we have very often prepared it in 'an easier way : some pitch of the proper consistence for polishing at 55 ?
is put into warm water ; and when soft , a little is taken out and rolled upon a wet board to the proper thickness .
There is ' no difficulty in this , as the roller is governed by ledges of proper height at each side of the board .
The surface of the pitch is wiped dry , and a thin stratum of the hard resinous composition in powder is sifted on .
A large flat-iron , red-hot , is then passed over at a distance of 3 or 4 inches , and so slowly as just to fuse the resinous powder without making any change in its composition .
The pitch , so prepared , is cut into squares of the proper size , and thrown into cold water till required .
The polisher , warmed to about 80 ?
, is then brushed over with very soft pitch , and , when the temperature has fallen to about 650 , the square pieces of pitch are arranged in their places and soon become quite fast .
The whole of this operation requires little experience , and can be managed by common workmen-a great advantage .
It has , however , this disadvantage , that the pitch is somewhat thicker than we should wish .
In the 6-feet polisher the squares are 2inches ; and although the soft pitch in the circular grooves will no doubt yield a little , still we have a larger continuous surface than we had by the original process , and therefore the pitch requires to be thicker .
The reason why with the long transverse strokes the pitch must be so thin is evidently this , that the polisher passes so far beyond the edge of the speculum .
If we coat a polisher with pitch alone and of some thickness in the ordinary way , and then proceed to polish , we shall find that , if at any time we stop the machinery for a few moments when the polisher is at the extremity of the stroke , the pitch will change its figure .
The change of course will be less as the stroke is shorter ; but by prolonging the time , even with a very short stroke it will still be perceptible .
So considerable is the change of figure under such circumstances , that after some time a distinct mark will be made by the edge of the speculum , and the projecting portions of the pitch becoming comparatively protuberant , unusual force will be required to effect the next stroke .
These continual changes of figure , slight as they may be , will produce excessive action on the outer portions of the speculum .
To meet this evil , if we diminish the length of the strokes much , we impair the self-correcting action to which we are mainly indebted for success .
To explain this , let us suppose the throw of the first eccentric , B ( see figure in ' Transactions ' for 1840 ) , to be reduced to a small quantity , and the action of the second eccentric , G , to be reduced in the same proportion , the speculum continuing to rotate ; if the polisher and speculum are not truly portions of the same sphere , there will be unequal action at the centre or edge of the speculum , according as the polisher is more or less convex than it ought to be .
In the first case , a depression will be formed at the centre of the speculum of a diameter proportional to the throw of the eccentrics ; in the second case there will be an annular depression at the edge of the speculum .
It is plain that the speculum cannot be restored to truth till the remainder of the surface has been lowered to the depth of the depression : this , however , will not be accomplished in practice if unequal action is continued even for a very short time .
It may be thought that rigid identity of figure might be secured in the first instance ; but this is practically impossible : the rouge cannot be distributed with perfect regularity ; besides , as the temperature of the polisher varies , so does its radius of curvature .
But even if perfect coincidence was secured at the beginning , it would not long continue .
With very small motions the abraded matter would not be equally distributed , and , collecting in excess in some place , unequal action would be set up before the pitch had time to yield .
If the excess was not at the centre , the depression would assume the character of a ring .
The pitch at length yielding , the ring would not increase , but it would continue , and , a similar cause arising in another part of the polisher , a second ring would be formed , and so on .
I have seen a surface of an annular character all over , the breadth of the rings depending on the adjustments of the eccentrics .
Why the depressions once formed continue with so much persistency is evidently owing to the yielding character of the pitch , which , when the depression is of large area , becomes protuberant , precisely as it does where it overhangs the speculum , and so the cutting action is to some extent continued .
An annular surface is produced by grinding , under similar circumstances , but the rings change their places frequently .
The annular surface is always best-marked when the action of the second eccentric is suspended completely .
To see the annular surface , the speculum must be slightly polished by rubbing it all over for a few minutes with a small lap covered with soft pitch and rouge .
I need , perhaps , hardly add that the character of 'these surfaces can only be seen when they are examined by the light reflected from the watch-dial , in the way described in the 'Transactions ' for 1840 .
As the throw of the eccentrics is increased the rings gradually disappear ; and when they reach the proper positions the surface becomes quite uniform .
We have often found it very useful , when the figure of the polisher was not satisfactory , to throw another movement into gear connected with the guide D , by which an occasional stroke was given of increased length : the cause of unequal action is thus immediately removed if it does not arise from some defect in the construction of the polisher , such as the contact of some unyielding substance with the iron .
The experiments I have just referred to were of a very early date , but they were numerous and made with great care ; I have therefore not thought it necessary to repeat them .
In the first polishing-machine we made , the polisher was connected with the eccentric B by means of a rigid bar passing through the guide D , the guide being furnished with an adjustment at right angles to the line joining the centres of the speculum and eccentric .
The guide was equidistant from the centres of the eccentric and polisher , and the path of a point in the polisher was similar to that of the crank-pin of the eccentric .
We found , however , that when the movements were very small the surfaces both in grinding and polishing became somewhat annular , and when the movements were large the figure was spoiled .
We therefore substituted a jointed rod for the rigid bar , and added the second eccentric .
From time to time we have returned to the rigid bar , tempted by its obvious advantages , and hoping in some degree to free it from its defects .
It is an advantage that with it the movement of a point in the polisher is as the circumference of a circle , while with the jointed bar under similar circumstances it is as the diameter .
In the one case there will be more than three times the amount of motion there will be in the other , and the polisher will overhang the speculum but for a moment at each stroke , instead of dwelling for a much longer time twice during 5B2 697 each revolution of the second eccentric , and therefore there is not the same necessity for employing a very thin substratum of pitch ; the process therefore is a much easier one .
We have found that with the rigid bar , and , indeed , with the jointed one , a slight periodical movement of the guide D contributes much to free the surface from an annular character , for reasons which are obvious .
The guide D is mounted now like the eccentric G , and a band from a small pulley on the axis of B , acting on a large one on the axis of D , effects the object in a very simple way .
When a speculum has been truly ground by the machinery acting with transverse strokes , the rigid bar will polish it on very easy terms , and for all the ordinary work of the observatory it will be sufficiently perfect .
We have long been in the habit of resorting to the rigid bar when out of practice and we required at once a fresh speculum .
A speculum of 3-feet aperture , which has usually been uncovered in all weathers for visitors , has frequently been so polished , and it has borne well a quarter-of-an-inch lens when tested with a watch-dial while on the engine .
When a speculum of 6-feet aperture was last polished a rigid bar was employed ; and the result wastolerably successful .
Since the publication of Mr. LASSEL'S experiments we have several times tried simple pitch , the movement being given by the rigid bar , but we have not succeeded in obtaining as good a surface or as fine definition as when the polisher was prepared in a. more elaborate manner .
The combination of soap and ammonia which we employ may be prepared in this way .
Half a pound of brown soap is dissolved in one quart of warm water , and one quart of strong water of ammonia is added .
The bottle is then corked and shaken from time to time , for a week at least : we think it improves by keeping .
One ounce of this mixed with eight ounces of water makes the lubricating fluid .
The mixture should be made the day before , and kept in an open vessel , so that the excess of ammonia may evaporate .
We were at first apprehensive that in employing this mixture we were endangering the hard film of the polisher , and so perhaps sacrificing to some extent truth of surface ; but this was found not to be the case unless the almmonia was much in excess .
As a kind of experimentum crucis , we , polished specula with simple pitch rather softer than usual , employing pure water and the saponaceous mixture alternately , and found that the mixture was favourable to truth of surface instead of the reverse .
We have long ceased to make rouge , as it can be obtained of good quality from the rouge-maker .
In shaping the polisher by applying it to the speculum , we find it better that the polisher should be quite cold , while the pitch and resinous composition are slightly warm .
We pass the flame of a few shavings : or of wood-spirit under the polisher with its surface down , and instantly apply it to the speculum for half a minute .
This is repeated till there is satisfactory contact .
When the polisher was warm , we found it was difficult to avoid compressing the pitch too much .
A crane makes the 3-feet polisher quite manageable ; and a travelling crane , with railway overhead and screw , effects the same thing for the 6.feet polisher .
Both polishers are provided with gimbals , so that they can be instantly turned over .
Though it is better to prepare the polisher fresh each time , we have often employed the same polisher successfully two or three times .
In that case the polisher must be washed , and when dry the surface is to be very slightly moistened with spirits of turpentine .
A thin film saturated with rouge will thus be removed ; and a flame passed under will evaporate the turpentine .
The polisher is then to be inverted and warmed to about 80 ?
, the face being uppermost and again turned over .
If now a flame is employed cautiously two or three times at intervals , the pitch at each square will become protuberant , bearing the hard resinous film on its surface , and the polisher will be restored very nearly to the same state it was in when originally prepared .
No one will be so ill advised as to attempt to construct a large reflecting telescope without first collecting all the information to be obtained in books .
In Mr. LASSEL'S paper in the 'Transactions ' of the Astronomical Society he will have an excellent guide .
Should he employ an apparatus similar to ours , the speculum is first to be truly ground with the jointed bar .
The throw of the first eccentric is to be one-third the diameter of the speculum , and that of the second , measured at the speculum , about one-fourth .
It will be better in all early experiments to rely on pitch alone , carefully adjusted to the temperature at which it is to be used , perhaps 55 ? .
The jointed bar which was employed in grinding the speculum is to be exchanged for the rigid bar , the eccentric and guide being readjusted .
When the speculum has been successfully polished a few times in this way , an attempt may be made to obtain a better result by facing the polisher with a hard resinous composition ; and finally the jointed bar may be resorted to , but at the same time the thickness of the pitch must be greatly reduced .
As to the mounting , it is simple , and any engineer could execute it without difficulty , the photographs supplying the necessary information .
The tube is supported at its lower extremity by a massive universal joint .
It is counterpoised by weights which are constrained to move in a circular arc which nearly coincides with the curve of equilibrium ; and a steady strain is kept upon the suspending-chain by means of three weights attached to levers , which successively come into play as the tube approaches the zenith and passes north beyond it : the levers are about two-thirds of the length of the tube , and have cross heads at their lower extremities , which are formed into bearings ; and when in their places , the cross heads are all parallel to each other and to the transverse axis of the universal joint , from which they are about 5 feet distant .
The levers thus move steadily in one plane , that of the meridian .
A chain connects the levers at the proper intervals and the tube with them ; and as the tube descends , each lever takes its place successively in a deep recess in the ground , the chain subsiding into a heap .
This contrivance is effectual , and the chain has never fouled .
The three weights.are of different sizes , so proportioned as to reduce as much as possible the deviations from exact equilibrium at different altitudes , due to the irregular 699 orO ONTH N TP , OTI oF U OF 6-FEET APERTURE , action of the co unterpoises , whicha move in a:arc of a ci instead of the proper curve .
A slow hand motion was originally fiIed near he m tof the t ube , for raising or lowering it in taking measures ; but we do not find it necessary .
The telescope at the equator can conveniently follow ai object threequarters:f n hour ; and its motion is nearly equatorial : it would be almost exactly s if the pulley of the suspending-chain was in a line drawn from the axis of the universal joint parallel with the axis of the earth .
The pulley , to give the chain more mechanical advantage in raising the telescope when very low , was placed above this line ; ; ' but there was:at ' the same time an arrangement made so that the chain might be brought , when necessary , by means of a grinding pulley , into the proper line .
In practice we have found the movement of the telescope sufficiently equatorial without this : at a little distance , 'however , from the meridian , the plane of the position-circle of the micrometer deviates sensibly from a plane passing through the pole in all positions except when near the equator , as will be evident on considering the construction of the univerM join ; ad the distance from the meridian must be known where much precision is requied in the reduction of the observations .
The motion in right ascension is ; by a rack the extremity f which bears byrollers on a circular arc of 40-feet radius .
This rack is connected with the tube by a pinion , and the pinion is acted upon by an endless screw drivenby a pulley , which pulley is driven by a band from a porter 's wheel attached to the lower end of t ube .
The pulley can also be moved by the observer ; but this is not often : necessary .
The large circular arc is in pieces 5 feet long each , carefully planed , but not touching at their extremities , to guard against unequal action .
The surface of each !
segment was adjusted separately to the plane of the meridian by a transit-instrument .
And thus the means were provided for taking right ascensions with considerable accuracy .
For polar distances there is a circle , 18-inches radius , at the lower end of the tube , furnished with a spirit-level ; but for finding objects , there is an index of 6-feet radius connected with the transverse axis of the universal joint ; so that the instrument can with the utmost facility be set roughly in polar distance .
Means , of course , are provided for enabling the observer to reach the eyepiece in every position of the telescope .
From 120 ?
of polar distance to 80 ?
this is effected by a stage , nearly counterpoised , which slides on bearers , the observer standing in a small gallery , to which he can communicate a transverse motion : the large stage is raised by a windlass ; and , to guard against possible accident , there is an arrangement which locks it , completely under the command of the observer .
From 80 ?
to 50 ?
the eyepiece is reached from the second gallery , and from 500^ to 250 by the third .
The fourth gallery , reaching to the pole , for which machinery was made at the same time as for the others , has never been put up , the other galleries so far furnishing ample employment for the instrument .
The action of the galleries , and the way they are secured , is sufficiently evident from the photograph : they are of great strength , and in their construction , as well as in all other parts of the instrument from which there seemed to be a possibility of accident , the ordinary engineering rules as to strength have been considerably exceeded .
The eyepiece arrangeent consists oftwo adapters fixed AiND A SELECTION FROM THE : OBSERYATIONS : .
MADE WTH TH into one slide , sothat therear always two eyepieces , a high ad allow power , which may be employed successive lymply by moving the slide .
The slide is counterpoised , and the eyepieces fit in without screws .
The : telesope is perfectly steady even in a high wind , and we have had occasionally very fine definition during a strong gale .
From the experience we have now had , I think I may safely say that , where objects are to be observed only at ; short distances from the ridian , this pln of mounting i convenient and effective , and I do ; not see room for any material improvement .
Where observations are carried on systematically , I do not think there i very muh disadvantage in the limited movement in right ascensionx Objects are best seen near the meridian , and no object can be thoroughly examined in any other position .
There i , indeed , a small portion of the heavens which can scarcely be observed in the perfect absence of twilight , and an object there situated would probably be better seen , even at some distance from the meridian , when it was perfectly dark ; but that seems to be of little moment .
The really important disadvantage of the limited equatorial movement seems to me to be this , that , where fine nights are extremely rare , with an instrument so limited it is impossible to turn them to the best account .
It now only remains to answer in the best way I can the questionsFirst , What magnifying power can be usefully employed with a speculum of 6-feet aperture ?
I perceive , in looking through the observations , that the single-lens eyepiece , --inch focus , being a power of about 1300 , is often mentioned as giving better vision than lower powers .
That , I presume , may be considered the highest power it has been found advantageous to employ in general observations upon the nebule .
With the speculum of 3-feet aperture I have occasionally employed powers exceeding 2000 in bringing out minute stars ; and the speculum of 6-feet aperture has sometimes been in sufficiently good order to admit of equal or perhaps higher powers ; but in our climate the opportunities of employing such powers are rare , and of short duration .
Secondly , it has been asked , Could a telescope be made of larger dimensions , and would it be of service ?
I feel little doubt that both questions should be answered in the affirmative .
A speculum of larger aperture would , probably , on favourable nights bring out faint details of interest in the nebulae , and add to the number of known double and multiple nebulae .
Something , however , will perhaps be accomplished in that direction in our future observations , by employing silver for the second reflexion ; but if ever telescopes of equal power ; ; are erected in , climates more favourable than this , perhaps more will be effected than would be possible here by pushing increase of aperture to the largest practicable limits .
In making a selection from observations so numerous , there has been considerable difficulty .
It was not always easy to decide how much it would be practicable to omit without the danger of conveying an erroneous impression-without , on the one hand , perhaps unduly weakening the evidence of the fact recorded , or , on the opter , unduly strengthening it .
For insta if , in the obsf a particular object , we find it recorded on six different nights that a minu star w see involved , d th on six 701 other nights it was not seen at all , the twelve , observations .
extending over a series of years , two cases might arise requiring very different treatment .
First , if the nights when the star was visible were irregularly interspersed between the nights when the star was invisible , and we saw enough in the state of the atmosphere or speculum to account for the occasional invisibility of the star , it would probably be quite sufficient to enter one good observation when the star was distinctly seen .
Suppose , however , that the nights when the star was seen were all included in the observations of the first three years , but that the nights when the star was not seen were in the observations of the last three years , then it would be necessary toenter all the observations , so that each person might be enabled to form his own opinion as to the cause of the discrepancy .
838 H. , fig. 11 , in the 'Transactions ' for 1850 , is a remarkable instance of this : from 1850 to 1858 the small star was not seen .
The details of faint nebule with curved or spiral branches have usually been made out by degrees , not only on successive nights , but often in successive years .
In such cases we have not usually thought it necessary to give the early observations , or the observations on unfavourable nights , but merely a few good observations embodying the whole amount of information we had been enabled to obtain .
New nebulae have not been looked for , our object being to scrutinize the more promising of the old ones ; but new nebulee have often been found in their immediate neighbourhood , and their places have usually been entered roughly in the observingbook , and a slight diagram made in the margin , so as to ensure their being easily found again : in such cases we have , to save space and diagrams , merely written " nove near , " and have only entered observations when the micrometer was employed .
We have also , for the same reason , omitted many diagrams of known objects , where the positions and distances were merely estimated .
In the case of each object , we say " observed so many times ; " that means that we have recorded observations of it on so mainy different nights : it may have been seen frequently on other occasions .
Where an object has been marked " observed several times , " and nothing more , the inference is that with an instrument such as ours is , and in our climate , it would be waste of time to examine it further in the hope of making out details of interest .
It will be observed that the cases are very numerous where stars have been seen on the edges of nebulae : we have taken care to enter each case , often , however , on the authority of a single good observation , as before explained .
The words " mottled " and " patchy " mean the same thing .
Where the nebula is of that character , it is worth examining under favourable circumstances .
The faint spirals have often:been first seen as cmottled .
' " The word " finder " means the eyepiece with ' a large field .
The telescope has no finder in the common acceptance of the word .
The letter " r " has been occa-sionally added to thi description , and always in the same sense as thaifin which llESCHEL emrployed it : I do not , however , attach much importance to the expression .
of opinion it conveys , because the question of resolvability can only be successfully investigated when the air is steady and the speculum in fine order .
In the early observations with the 6-feet telescope we had the advantage of a very fine speculum ; it had been polished at the close of a long series of experiments with 3-feet specula , when by practice every refinement of manipulation was fresh in the recollection ; there were also at that time several very good nights ; and many nebulae were resolved .
Very soon after , the spiral form of arrangement was detected ; and our attention was then directed to the form of nebulae , the question of resolvability being a secondary object .
In the mean time the speculum , which had been frequently dewed and occasionally cleaned , had lost its fine edge , and was no longer in a state to deal with the question of resolvability .
Our aim was to trace out faint details , and in that respect also the speculum had lost much of its power It was therefore repolished , and , though less perfect than before , did the work we required well .
Since that , we have had perhaps two or three specula as perfect as the first one ; but the mass of observations have been made with specula considerably inferior to it , and , I am sorry to say , very often not as bright as they should have been .
The removing a 6-feet speculum from the telescope to the laboratory , repolishing it , perhaps several times , and replacing it , is a serious operation , and has often been too long postponed .
While the telescope was in constant use in all weathers , it would have been a hopeless task to attempt to keep it in a state fit for the resolution of nebulae , and the attempt was not made .
I may , perhaps , mention that with the 3-feet speculum in fine order I have often detected resolvability when there was no trace of it with the 6-feet speculum in its ordinary working-condition .
The question of resolvability , therefore , I think , must remain to be taken up separately , when the finest instrumental means are available , and when it may no longer be necessary to subject the specula to the wear and tear of constant work .
As to the nebulae which have nuclei , some are described as increasing in brightness very gradually to the centre , others very rapidly , and some as having a stellar nucleus , or perhaps a star in the centre .
These descriptions , however accurately conveying the impressions made upon the eye at the time , cannot be taken as in all cases representing real physical facts .
A star may have been mistaken for a condensed nucleus , or the reverse ; and it is often impossible to say which of the two suppositions is the more probable .
The remarks as to the question of resolvability apply with equal force to the questions relating to the structure of nuclei .
It is , however , probably worth remarking , that , while amongst the clusters there are objects which , if removed to a. sufficient distance , or examined with an instrument of insufficient power , may be supposed-to be representations of nebulae with centres of varying brightness or condensation , there seems to be no cluster with a central star of such surpassing magnitude that under any circumstances it could be taken as the representative of the class of objects described as having a star in the centre .
: The little rough sketches in the margin are exact copies from the sketches made at the moment in the observing-book .
There are usually several sketches of the same object made at different times ; we have endeavoured to select the best .
As to the drawings , they usually represent the objects a little stronger than they appear on an ordinary night , but not stronger than on a fine night , when the air is clear and the sky black .
Most of them have been repeatedly compared with the objects by different persons , and some have been several times sketched independently ; so that I -trust they are upon the whole accurate .
The central portion of the nebula of Orion has been drawn with great care by Mr. BINDON STONY , and Mr. HUNTER has been engaged this season in finishing the remainder ; but another season will be required to complete the work .
Although there is probably no remarkable object in the list which I have not several times examined myself , for the great bulk of the observations I am indebted to the gentlemen at the time in charge of the Observatory .
Mr. JOHNSTONE STONEY'S observations commenced in July 1848 ; and in June 1850 he was succeeded by his brother , Mr. BINDON STONY .
He continued in charge of the Observatory till May 1852 ; after that , Mr. MITCHELL observed for about two years .
Mr. JOHNSTONE STONY occasionally also worked with his brother , and sometimes with Mr. MITCHELL .
Though so many of the observations were made in my absence , they are not the less to be relied on : nothing was done by an unpractised hand , and no pains were spared to ensure accuracy .
I refer with as much confidence to the observations of the two Mr. STONEYS and Mr. MITCHELL as if I had on every occasion been present myself , because I know that they had thoroughly mastered the instrument and the methods of observing before they recorded a single independent observation ; they were , besides , eminently cautious and painstaking .
There are no micrometer observations by Mr. MITCHELL : I now rather regret it , as several cases of suspected change have recently been brought to light in arranging the materials of this paper .
The fault , however , was mine .
It appeared to me so highly improbable that any change would be detected , that I requested Mr. MITCHELL to press on and not spend time on the micrometer .
The most remarkable case of suspected change is perhaps H. 1905 .
HERSCHEL gives a drawing of it , the axes of the two nebule in a line .
On April 11 , 1850 , Mr. JOHNSTON STONY remarks the two nebula not in a line .
April 17 , 1855 , Mr. MITCHELL remarks the two nebulae are not in a line , but the axes are parallel , and gives a diagram .
At the present time they are neither in a line nor parallel , but inclined at an angle of about sixteen degrees .
The micrometer is employed without illumination ; various contrivances were tried for illuminating the lines in a dark field ; but the darkness was not absolute , and faint details were obliterated .
We therefore substituted bars for lines .
In the ' Transactions ' for 1850 are given Mr. JOHNSTON STONEY'S measures of H. 1622 .
M. OTTO STRUVE was good enough to send me measurements of the same spiral , and to direct my attention to the fact that Mr. STONEY'S positions are about two degrees in excess .
A little consideration made it evident that the construction of the universal joint which supported the telescope was the cause of the error , and that a certain correction must be applied , depending upon the polar distance and the distance from the meridian .
Mr. BINDON STONEY'S measures of H. 1622 are also given , as also his measures of H. 2060 , and STRUVE'S measures of both .
As OTTO STRUVE'S measures are no doubt as exact as possible , it will be easy to judge of the degree of dependence to be placed upon the other measures made by us .
As to the figured nebulee , little can be added to the information contained in the general catalogue .
Plates XXV .
and XXIX .
figures 7 and 35 , are from sketches by Mr. HUNTER , but they had been previously sketched several times by others .
We preferred Mr. HUNTER'S sketches , thinking they were upon the whole the most accurate , containing some additional details .
Figure 43 , the Dumbell , by Mr. BINDON STONY , is based on micrometrical measurements , and is thoroughly to be relied upon .
No stars are inserted which have not been measured .
The powers used were low , the ordinary working-eyepiece : with high powers the faint details vanish .
The original observations are in books , in which they were entered each night : from time to time they were copied into a folio in the order of right ascension ; and of that folio a copy was made for ordinary use in the Observatory .
It will be easy therefore to supply , to any person who may be engaged in observing a particular object , all the information we possess .
We have not given the places of the objects brought up to the present day , but merely HERSCHEL'S numbers , to save space .
It is hoped that further inquiry will be suggested by the questions raised in the following observations ; they have already opened up to us new grounds for further research .
INDEX TO THE FIGURED NEBULE.-PLATES XXV .
to XXXI .
Number in the Number in the Figure .
observatios .
By whom drawn .
Figure .
earth By whom drawn .
observations .
observations .
1 15 Mr. Mitchell .
23 1306 &amp; 1308 Mr. Mitchell .
2 156 Mr. B. Stony .
24 1337 , 3 232 Mr. Mitchell .
25 1385 &amp; 1392 4 241 26 1414 &amp; 1415 Mr. B. Stony .
5 242 Mr. B. Stony .
27 1441 Mr. Mitchell .
6 262 , , 28 1589 7 311 Mr. S. Hunter .
29 1650 , 8 315 Mr. Mitchell .
30 1713 , 9 327 , 31 1905 &amp; 1906 Mr. S. Hunter .
10 131 , , 32 1946 , , 11 393 Mr. B. Stony .
33 1968 Mr. B. Stony .
12 421 34 2075 Mr. Mitchell .
13 689 Mr. Mitchell .
35 1744 Mr. S. Hunter .
14 692 &amp; 693 , , 36 2084 Mr. B. Stony .
15 765 &amp; 766 , , 37 2099 Mr. Mitchell .
16 875 Mr. G. J. Stony .
38 2139 .
17 1011 Mr. Mitchell .
39 2172 , 18 1052 &amp; 1053 Mr. B. Stony .
40 2241 Mr. B. Stony .
19 1061 , , 41 2245 Mr. Mitchell .
20 1111 &amp; 1113 , , 42 2297 21 1202 , , 43 2060 Mr. B. Stony .
22 1245 Mr. Mitchell .
5c2 Fig. 1 .
The speculum upon its supporting levers , the apparatus by which the levers themselves are counterpoised having been previously removed to prevent confusion .
1 .
The lime-boxes , connected with the cover by sliding tubes .
2 .
The cover , which fits nearly air-tight .
Before the cover is taken off , the lime-boxes are removed , all communication between the lime-boxes and speculum having been first intercepted by valves .
Without this precaution , lime dust would make its way to the speculum .
3 .
Ring in which the speculum is suspended .
4 .
Supporting levers , which are shown in plan in fig. 10 , where A represents a primary triangle , Ba primary and three secondary triangles , and C one-third of the system complete , the dots being the balls .
5 .
The frame upon which the levers rest : a single casting .
6 .
A massive casting , which is bolted to the bottom of the table as soon as the speculum is in its place : it bears the wrought-iron girder ( 7 ) which holds the suspending-ring .
8 .
Turn-table for changing the specula : it is at the north of the telescope , close to the elevating-windlass .
Fig. 2 .
The same , with the weights and levers for counterpoising the secondary triangles .
9 .
The weight .
10 .
The common fulcrum of the levers .
The levers are connected with the secondary triangles by slight straight rods .
Fig. 3 .
Grindingand polishing-tool , seen at the back .
It is suspended by gimbals ; the tool can therefore be turned over easily from time to time , which is necessary in applying the pitch and resinous composition .
As soon as the tool is prepared the gimbals are removed ; and it is then managed by the shackle in the centre .
The shackle carries a triangle , with a lever at each angle .
Each lever carries similarly two levers , connected at their extremities with T-shaped levers , which carry the tool by thirty-six points .
The chain through which the counterpoise acts during the progress of grinding and polishing is hooked to the shackle , and the strain is thus distributed so equally that there is no sensible distortion .
Fig. 4 .
The same tool , seen in front .
The straight grooves are produced by casting ; and in this there is no difficulty , provided the pattern is nicely made .
The little square blocks are kept in their places in the usual way by pins , and , remaining in the sand , are removed separately .
The circular grooves are of course cut in the lathe .
Fig. 5 represents the telescope seen from the south-east , the stage of the first gallery being slightly raised .
Fig. 6 , from the south-west , showing the machinery of the second and third galleries .
Fig. 7 , from the south , showing the position of the telescope when a man enters the tube to fix the small speculum , and remove the cover of the large one , in preparing for the night 's work .
Fig. 8 , as seen from the north .
Fig. 9 .
The crane which carries the eastern counterpoise , on a larger scale .
The same parts are similarly lettered in all the figures .
A , the cranes which carry the counterpoises .
B , fig. 9 , a guide-wheel by which the chain is kept in the axis of the crane in all positions of the counterpoise .
The points of the shaft are placed eccentrically , so that it clears the wheel B when the telescope passes the zenith and moves north .
F is of wood plated with iron , and is connected by rollers with the arc E , and by a rack and pinion with the tube .
The pinion is driven by a wheel acted upon by an endless screw on the bar which carries the pulley N , fig. 7 .
The pulley N is driven by a band , and porter 's wheel on the lower end of the tube , and thus the motion in right ascension is given .
C , the principal counterpoises .
D , the counterpoises of the stage of the first gallery .
The stage is raised by increasing the action of the counterpoises D D. This is effected by chains attached to them , which pass underground to a small windlass .
The counterpoises being rather less than the weight of the stage , it descends when the chains are relaxed .
The stage carries the gallery G , whicji traverses on it in right ascension , motion being given to two of its wheels by a winch in the hand of the observer .
E , an arc of cast iron made in pieces 5 feet long , not quite touching at the extremities , to guard against unequal expansion .
Each piece was planed and accurately adjusted in the meridian by a transit-instrument .
H , the second gallery .
I , the third gallery .
The galleries are supported by the beams o , which are plated with iron , and they are moved in right ascension by rack and pinion .
P , tension bars to secure the iron framework carrying the wheels against which the beams press as the galleries are moved out .
K , the cranes which carry the guy-chains , by which the counterpoises are constrained to move nearly in the curve of equilibrium .
R , the chain which , passing over the pulley L , moves the telescope in polar distance .
T , the chain of the principal counterpoise .
In fig. 9 the chain M is seen , which raises three levers , each carrying a counterpoise .
These levers successively coming into play as the telescope approaches and passes the zenith , maintain the chain R in such a state of tension , that the telescope obeys the windlass in every position .
It has been found practicable so to adjust the levers that the residual error of compensation arising from the imperfect action of the guy-chains has been rendered almost insensible .
Fig. 11 .
Universal joint which bears the tube .
A , bolts which secure it to the bottom of the tube .
BB , two of the three adjusting-screws : these act against the carriage ( 5 , fig. 1 ) , directly under the ball-and-socket joint of the primary triangles .
C , the axis perpendicular , and D the axis parallel to the horizon .
The axis D gives motion to a large index for roughly setting the telescope in polar distance .
E , a strong trussed framework of cast iron , secured to a solid stone foundation .
707 Number in Number Herschel 's of times Description .
Catalogue .
observed .
Oct. 7 , 1850 .
Upper neb .
is equable in 1 and is much the fainter .
Sept. 1849 .
Position of B 91 ?
Position of A 159 Oct. 7 , 1850 .
AB 97 ?
A 157 B 91 Sept. 20 , 1857 .
Narrow ray sp , nf ; wF .
Planetary ?
S ; R ; bM ; nucleus .
vF .
F ; S. 7 knots found .
Pos. Nov. 27,1850 .
a3 235 ?
aa 73 iay 18 i Oct. 7 , 1855 .
S ; R ; pB ; mbM .
Aug. 30 , 1851 .
E. np , sf ; light uneven .
'A group of 4 neb .
No description .
A group of 3 involved in vF .
neby .
'Each has a nucleus .
ight , s. Dist .
5 ' 23 " A. .
Dist .
5i 29 " 5 44 s5 41 Pos. Dist .
Sept. 29 , 1850 .
fa 178 ?
Pia 18 18 35 " ta 1176 1 34 f Ia 175 1 34 The last two observations probably most correct .
Position of axis of fj 225 ?
Position of axis of a 160 Sept. 16 , 1854 .
* in np .
edge .
* seen in centre of nucleus ?
F ; bM .
Aug. 24 , 1851 .
* p. the nucleus ; E. np , sf .
Since 1850 .
Nothing further .
Nov. 26 , 1850Po .
s. ist .
Pfa 23 ? ?
1 ' 46 " Looks like a* seen in haze .
vF ; several *s involved .
Mottled ; * in.np .
edge .
S ; 1E .
p. and f. Nucleus .
B ---SN : M. *t AOct .
9 , 1850 .
Pos. 223 ? .
Dist .
2 ' 52 " .
Nov. 2 , 1850 .
4 neb .
in the field .
Nucleus .
R ; pL .
Both R , and have nuclei .
Sept. 16 , 1852 .
Involves a vS .
* to nf .
Another neb .
6 ' p. and 1 ' n. of it .
Oct. 8 , 1855 .
Outline irreg ; pB .
-R .
Like 242 .
Oct. 11 , 1850 .
Much E. from np .
to sf ; gbM .
to nucleus .
Sept. 18 , 1852 .
S. Number in Number Herschel 's of times Description .
Catalogue .
observed .
2236 3 or 4 conspicuous *s in it ; not in a line between Herschel 's two *s , the p. one of which is d. 2237 2 S ; vF ; R. 2241 16 Since the publication in the ' Transactions ' for 1850 .
The outlying portions in the published sketch are parts of spiral branches .
Figure 40 , Plate XXX .
represents it as seen on a very fine night ( Sept. 16 , 1852 ) , with a freshly polished speculum which defined very sharply .
Oct. 2 , 1856 .
All the details in Mr. STONr , EY ' drawing very well seen .
Oct. 16 , 1857 .
The spiral arms and the * in centre distinctly seen .
2242 Oct. 23 , 1857 .
R ; pB ; nucleus ; another 6 ' s ; S ; vF .
2245 12 Sketched 4 times .
Nov. 5,1850 .
I saw two knots and a dark space between them .
I think the neb .
is connected above the dark space .
Nov. 27 , 1850 .
2 knots seen nearly n. and s , and a dark space between .
Aug. 24 , 1851 .
2 knots and a dark space between , connected above by neby , as in sketch .
Sept. 26 , J 854 .
Certainly a spiral ; some *s at moments visible .
Oct. 17 , 1854 .
Spirality distinctly seen .
I thought the coil doubled in upon itself more closely than shown in Mr. SToNEY 's drawing , and that the central knot had a stellar nucleus .
The whole neb .
looked sparkling , though I could not see its separate *s .
Nov. 22 , 1854 .
Central nucleus stellar .
The outer edge of the coil , just where it joins the external nucleus , seems brighter than the rest .
Oct. 15 , 1855 .
Seen to be spiral , as before .
See fig. 41 , Plate XXX .
2248 2 Oct. 8 , 1855 .
of ; mottled and irreg .
outline .
2250 Looked for 4 times ; not found .
2257 1 Nov. 4 , 1850 .
Nucleus ; a F. neb .
f. about 2 ' .
2258 1 Oct. 17 , 1854 .
R ; pB ; mbM .
2260 1 Nov. 13 , 1854 .
E ; bM ; a F. * p. 2261 4 Oct. 24 , 1857 .
Edge ragged ; F. nucleus .
2262 3 Oct. 24 , 1857 .
pB ; R ; mbM .
2264 6 Oct. 7 , 1855 .
A F. suspicion of a dark ring round the B. centre .
2267 1 Nov. 17 , 1854 .
1E .
n. and s. 2268 5 Nov. 22 , 1854 .
pL ; R. A* precedes the nucleus ( 1-inch single lens ) ; sp. this object there is a vS .
E. neb .
2271 4 Aug. 24 , 1851 .
A List of Stars in the Dumb-bell Nebula , H. 2060 , measured in autumns of 1850 and 1851 .
Origin taken at a Mr. BINDON STONY .
( a of M. STRUVE ) ; brightest star in sp. quarter .
By Name in M. Struve 's o. of X in .
tin observingname .
observaM .
Struve'M .
Struve 's book .
tion .
list .
list .
f3 d +154-4 + 175 2+ 1525 + 12-8 'c+ 325-3 + 63-1 2 -t-321-1 + 628 ye +172-8 + 98-6 3 t172-5 + 98-8 f+ 172'3 +144-5 2 +174-6 +142 2 sE .
qg +173-9 +193-2 2 +174-3 +191-5 oh +246*2 +100-5 2 +251-1 +101*7 xk +187-4 -121-3 2 +186-8 -121-0 / A w+ 323-5 -115 02 +317-7 -102-0 o b ' +303-6 + 183*4 2 +308-3 +186-3 Pb+ 230 +199-7 2+ 216 + 199-7 ro+ 46-8 +1495 3+ 49-6 +144'0 qrp+ 48-1 61-3 2+ 60-6 '+ 57*9 r a ' 10-9 59-8 12-3 57-2 i+ 235-8 + 70-8 1 +238-2 + 71t , ,+223-0 + 51*4 1 A. .
+ 54'4 228 2 x.o. +304-6 + 21-3 1 4 ?
.- .
, + 73-6 -136-8 1 .
+ 63-6 -122-6 1 w ... + 142-6 + 60-4 1vr +398-2 91-6 1 +396-9 74-0 A is the extremity of the bright mass of nebulosity in the sp. quarter .
[ Observations of Stars in the Dumb-bell Nebula , Messier 27 , I. 2060 .
By M. 0 .
STRUVE .
The following list of observations contains all stars which can be seen , by the Pulkova refractor , in the Dumbell Nebula .
Sometimes I had a faint suspicion of some stars more visible on the ground of the nebula , but they were not seen distinctly enough to allow an exact micrometrical determination of their places .
It will be interesting to see how many stars more Lord RossE'S great reflector will show in this nebula ; from this comparison some approximate judgment might be formed about the respective space-penetrating powers of the two instruments .
My observations extend as far as I was able to trace the nebulosity .
I think there is only one star in the lists situated quite out of the nebula .
This star was observed merely for the sake of control .
Probably Lord ROSSE'S large reflector will extend considerably further the boundaries of the nebulosity ; but to compare the relative powers of the two instruments , it will be necessary to confine the enumeration of the stars to the same boundaries which are approximately indicated by the stars in the following list .
As fundamental point for the triangulation , I selected the star a of the 10th magnitude , situated near the S.W. corner of the nebula .
It cannot be mistaken , for it is far the brightest object in the whole nebula .
All observations have been made with illuminated wires in the dark field , and with a power of 207 .
From the preceding observations the following coordinates , X , Y , with regard to a have been deduced .
X is the coordinate in the direction of .
R or AIR cos $ ; Y is the coordinate in declination or At .
In this deduction , where the angles of position of any star were taken from three different points previously fixed , I have combined only those two directions which promised the most exact evaluation of the coordinates .
Thus , for instance , the star r is related to 1 , e and s. In the three triangles formed in this way , the angle at r is found respectively lre=91 ? ?
24 ' , lrs=137 ? ?
54 ' , sre= 130 ? ?
42 ' .
Hence it is evident that the nearly right-angular intersection of the two sides 1r and re in the triangle I re , must give the best combination for the deduction of the position of r. The relation of I and e to another and to a being previously established , the coordinates of r to a were deduced from the resolution of the triangle I re .
The difference of these coordinates from the corresponding previously fixed coordinates of s with regard to a , gave the angle of position of r from s by calculation =258 ? ?
37 ' .
This calculated angle , compared with the directly observed position = 258 ? ?
18 ' , shows a difference of only 19 ' , and bears , therefore , a very satisfying testimony to the exactness of the deduced position of r. The same proceeding having been followed in all other cases , where control observations had been made , I have got the conviction that the probable error in any of the following coordinates will be considerably inferior to one second of space .
It will be comparatively smaller for the brighter stars , but somewhat greater for the very faint objects .
Calculated Coordinates of the Observed Stars with regard to a. .
Y. q 97-6 20'9 a -12-3 57-2 b+ 2136 + 199-7 o+ 49*6 +144-0 p+ 60-6 + 57.9 d +152-5 + 12.8 e+ 1725 + 98'8 g +174-3 +191'5 f +1746 +142'2 k +186-8 -121-0 n+ +224-9 -184'7 m +225'0 -164-3 i. 4+ 238-2 + 71*5 h +2511 + 101-7 z +279-6 -199.7 bt + 308-3 +186-3 w +317-7 --102-0 c +321-1 + 62-8 y + ?
321-8 -219'5 1 +332-4 16e22 t+ 347-8 -128.9 v +390-7 -161-7 r+ 396-9 74-0 u+ 402-4 -200-8 x +442-0 -148-5 s+ 5558 42-0 ( Signed ) Pulkova , Feb. 4 , 1852 .
] OTTO STRUVE .
To these relations must be added the mean value of the two observed relations Nn ( April 7 , May 3 ) which gives Nn ang .
pos .
=14 ? ?
51 ' , distance =265"'65 .
These relations between the four principal objects form the base from which the places of the other stars are deduced by resolutions of the triangles formed by the observed directions .
The following Table contains the results of my calculations .
It gives the places of all observed objects with regard to N , the apparent centre of the greater nebula , and that of the star g to h. Ang .
Pos. Distance .
Nn 14 51 265-65 Na 229 26 88'57 Nb 108 54 243'63 Nd 277 27 121'9 No 161 47 104-4 Nf 309 2 189*9 Nh 210 51 174-2 Ng 221 25 202'6 Nk 51 47 115.1 N 54 48 518-0 Nm 190 24 250.0 hg 267 5 44-7 Our observations contain several controls , by which it is proved that the deduced places of the stars , with regard to N , might be judged all exact within 2 " .
This exactness must be regarded as very satisfactory , if we consider the extreme faintness of the observed objects .
I estimate a star to be of the 14th magnitude if it is more suspected than distinctly seen in a dark night .
Hence it follows that the greater part of the stars in our list are close to the extremity of measureableness in the Pulkova refractor .
Another cause which troubles the agreement of results is the indistinctness of the centre of the greater nebula N. The centre of the small nebula n is much more distinct : all observations of the dimensions of the nebula , or of knots in it , have been omitted by me , as they can be observed with much more accuracy by Lord ROSSE'S powerful telescope .
The Earl of ROSSE communicated to me the following relations of sixteen objects in the nebula , as observed through his telescope .
I add to that list the differences of our measures ( S--R ) for the objects which appear to be identical .
iROM THE OBSERVATIONS MADE WITH THEM .
743 a , _ , ?
, ... .
, , , , _ I , _- " ' Designation Designation Ang .
Pos Distance .
S-R .
by Lord Rosse .
: by O. Struve. .
Nn Nn 1 34 -1 43 4 22,2 + 3-4 N1 Nk 52 4 -0 17 2 6-6 -11-5 N 2 ... .54 0 ... ... ... 5 0*0 N 3 ... .104 20 ... ... ... 456 N4 Nb 111 57 -3 34 3.6 0.0 N5 No 165 35 -3 48 1 43-2 + 12 N6 Nm 191 42 -1 18 i3 54-0 +16'0 N7 Nh 211 2 -0 11 2 366 +17-6 7 , 8 kg 270 42 -3 37 0 34*8 + 9'9 N9 N 231 32 -1 23-4 + 52 9,10 ... ... ... 197 57 ... ... . .
0 270 N1 Nd 279 21 -1 54 1 49-8 +121 i 11,12 ... ... 225 27 ... ... 0 12-6 i N13 ... ... .
281 37 ... ... . .
3 510 14,15 ... ... .
297 15 N 15 Nf 31034 -1 32 2 55.8 +141 From this comparison it is evident that all angles measured by Lord RossE are too great .
The mean value of the correction , 1 ? ?
57 ' , corresponds to a linear distance of --4"'7 .
The distances appear to be generally too small .
The mean value of the differences is +6 " ' 8 .
Perhaps Lord ROSSE'S star 2 is identical with my 1 ; but in that case , Lord ROSSE'S distance N2 must be an error of writing .
At the distance of 5 ' from NI could not see the least trace of a star in the indicated direction .
In my copy of Lord RossE'S diagram the star 2 is placed at a distance of about 8 ' , corresponding with my observations ; 10 appears to me only as a knot of the nebula , and has therefore not been measured by me .
About the stars 3 , 12 , 13 , and 14 there is no notice given in my journal .
Perhaps they might be seen and measured with our refractor .
The next spring I intend to repeat and to complete the series of observations , and to decide on the visibility of the not yet noticed stars .
( Signed ) OTTO STRUVE .
( Dated ) Pulkova , June 2 , 1851 .
] In forming some estimate of the degree of reliance to be placed on the micrometrical measurements in this paper , we have taken advantage of the information so obligingly communicated by M. 0 .
STRUVE .
As to the measures of distance , they accord with STRUVE'S as closely perhaps as could be expected .
We measure with bars instead of lines , and without illumination , that we may the better see the faint details of the outlying portions of the nebulae ; besides , we do not employ clockwork to move the telescope .
Our measures of stars cannot therefore in accuracy compete with STRUVE'S , but they are quite sufficient for giving precision to the drawings .
As to the angles of position , the same remarks apply , with this addition , that we refer our measurements to the horizon , and reduce them to the equator .
Our zero is therefore obtained from the spirit-level , which saves time , to us a great object .
We proceed in this way : the level is made horizontal and read off : each measure + or this quantity will be the distance from the horizon , provided the telescope is on the meridian .
When the measures are not taken on the meridian , but a little before or after it , there will be an error in all positions except at the equator .
There will be an error owing to two causes , one the error of the zero , the level having been read off the meridian ; the other the error in the reading of the position-circle , owing to the action of the universal joint which carries the telescope .
The transverse axis of this joint restrains the movement of the telescope round the line of collimation as it approaches or recedes from the meridian ; and consequently the plane of the position-circle , except at the equator , does not pass through the pole .
The sum of the errors in each case could easily have been computed and allowed for in the reductions , had the distance from the meridian been taken simultaneously with the measurements , but this would have taken much time .
The measurements in the Dumb-bell accord pretty closely with STRUVE'S , and may , I think , be taken as a fair average of the work .
As to H. 1622 , the comparison of STRUVE'S measures with those of the two STONEYS will give more than a probable amount of error at 42 ?
N.P.D , because the stars are numerous , and some measures therefore were taken at a considerable distance from the meridian .
I have not seen the Dumb-bell since STRUVE'S letter , having been from home when it was within reach ; and no attempt has been made to ascertain the largest number of stars visible in it .
No stars have been inserted in the sketch which have not been measured : very many more were distinctly seen .
The number of stars visible in this nebula depends even more upon magnifying power and distinctness than aperture ; high powers obliterate the faint nebulous details .
The only additional information as to the limits of the nebula which has been obtained since Mr. B. STONEY'S drawing was made is contained in the following entry:-August 29th , 1854 , observed by Dr. ROBINSON and Mr. J. STONY .
Mr. STONY says , " Both Dr. ROBINSON and I agreed that the band of faint nebulosity extended further down than in my brother 's drawing .
My brother and I had formed the same opinion on a previous occasion .
" In the observations a silver speculum is sometimes mentioned : we have employed silver occasionally for the second reflexion in this way , First , a thin deposit on glass by LIEBIG'S process .
This , even when fresh , reflects but little more light than speculummetal .
Second , a thick deposit on glass , by the grape-sugar or tartaric-acid process , transferred to brass by a thin film of shell-lac : this reflects much more light ; but the manipulation is rather difficult , and the surface is not very durable .
Third , a surface of standard silver , polished by mechanical means .
Fourth , parallel glass , silvered by the grape-sugar process ; this of course is durable , but very inferior to the uncovered silver in light and in definition .
These substitutes for speculum-metal have only been occasionally used , and for special purposes .
List of Nebulae not found .
Number in Number of Number in Number of Herschel 's times Observations .
Herschel 's times Observations .
Catalogue .
looked for .
Catalogue .
looked for .
57 1 672 1 162 8 706 6 184 1 745 1 206 1 828 1 281 1 1307 1 284 2 One night passing clouds .
1485 2 Once sky hazy .
314 1 Clouds passing .
1535 1 Clouds passing .
333 1 1832 1 343 7 1948 1 356 4f Twice , a slight milkiness 1974 1 suspected .
2062 1 401 9 2073 2 468 5 No nebulosity seen .
2113 2 546 2133 4 577 2137 1 578 1 2148 3 Once clouds passing .
590 1 2250 4 669 1 2302 2 This is not to be considered as a list of missing nebulae , but merely of objects which were not found in the ordinary course of observing , and to which therefore it is desirable that attention should be directed .
They have not been looked for since this list was made out .
The engravings of the Nebulae are extremely faithful : there is , however , a slight inaccuracy which it is necessary to notice , and for which we are to blame , not the engraver .
Many of the principal stars are too large .
The error arose in this way .
The stars were inserted in common , not Indian ink , and , the drawings during their transmission by post becoming slightly damp , the ink made its way into the paper , the dots in some cases becoming small blots .
In a few instances it was necessary to set this right to prevent misconception , and some alteration was in consequence made in the Plates ; but as to the remainder , we thought it sufficient to state the fact generally , that many of the principal stars were somewhat too large .
This remark applies especially to figures 1 and 3 , Plate XXV .
, and to figures 24 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 34 , Plate XXVIII .

