The President then addressed the Society as follows:-GENTLEMEN , WAHEN we met last November , I ventured to remark that the objects of science were better understood than they had been formerly , and that accurate notions on scientific subjects were becoming more prevalent : the progress in that direction has still continued , and during the last year it has been even more decided than before .
With the spread of knowledge , the great body of the community are now better enabled to appreciate the importance of science in promoting the moral and physical improvement of mankind ; there is consequently a growing desire that science should be advanced , and as that object has been best effected by scientific societies , they are regarded with more interest .
Public opinion having taken that direction decidedly , it was not unreasonable to expect that Government would feel anxious to meet the wishes of the scientific bodies , and provide them with a building where they would be enabled to employ to the best advantage the machinery of association , which had already effected so much .
It is probable , therefore , that before very long you will have the important question to decide , -whether to retain your present apartments , or to accept a suitable place in a new building .
Throughout all the communications with the Government , your officers have taken especial care to be perfectly explicit on two points : one , that till the plans were prepared , any final decision on your part was impossible ; the other , that you had a free option to retain your present apartments should you think fit , having received them as a grant , to endure so long as the Society should exist .
There can now , I think , be little doubt but that the leading Scientific Societies will be suitably provided for , and that you will have the opportunity of taking your proper place at the head of science , with the other Societies by your side .
The pursuit of science will thus be greatly facilitated ; it will be rendered more convenient , and therefore more attractive ; and many will devote themselves to it who perhaps otherwise would not have entered upon it at all .
While , however , the Government is wisely anxious to encourage the active pursuit of science by meeting the wishes of the great body of scientific men , we perhaps may have it in our power to effect something in the same direction .
From various observations of my late lamented predecessor in his Addresses , it was evidently his opinion that we should act wisely in shaping our rules so as to adapt them to the varying usages of society , rather than to preserve everything unchanged , relying on the sanction of a long prescription .
In former times , November was the height of the London season , and the Anniversary , with all its preliminary business , was naturally held then , because the largest number of Fellows were in town .
Whether for the better or not , the season has been changed , and it is now six months later ; we , however , remain where we were .
The Council meets the latter end of October , and continues its meetings through November ; the principal business being to award the medals , and to select the Officers and Council to be recommended to the Society at large for election .
The November business is wound lip by the Anniversary , the most important meeting of the Society .
The Fellows who are not permanent residents in London are naturally absent in the 2c country : the great business of the year , with all its responsibilities , devolves therefore upon a section of the Society .
A country gentleman , if named upon the Council , cannot conveniently attend in November , and but few country gentlemen attend the anniversary* .
Our proceedings are therefore not of as much interest to the Fellows taken as a whole as they might be made to be , and they are not calculated to attract the men who , having attained high scientific distinction at the Universities , reside in the country , unharassed by professional calls , and who have therefore both training and leisure , important elements of success in all scientific pursuits .
The award of the medals at a time when so many Fellows are absent is also attended with inconvenience ; for although an attempt is made to secure for each science a kind of representation in the Council , still so wide is the range of science now , that special departments are often necessarily unrepresented .
In disposing of papers , the imperfect representation of individual sciences is unattended with inconvenience , because each paper is referred to two Fellows to report upon ; the Council thus calls the whole Society to its aid , and the result , I believe , is perfectly satisfactory .
With the medals it is otherwise ; no official reference is made to Fellows not on the Council .
There is a further difficulty .
The questions which usually arise are of this nature .
Discoveries have been made by different individuals in various sciences .
Who has added most to the general stock of knowledge by a positive contribution ?
Who has the merit of having effected discoveries of most promise ?
Recollect , that in answering these questions some estimate must be made of the weight due to each science , for they cannot be considered all alike ; very far from it .
Some sciences require great mental labour , guided by faculties of a very high order , -a rare gift ; while other sciences can be cultivated successfully by common-place men , with only a moderate amount of perseverance .
That such an estimate can be made , and which carries with it a kind of general assent , is evidenced by the fact that it is annually made , to some extent , at the examination for the Fellowship in the University of Dublin , which bears a certain loose but not uninstruc* At the last Anniversary the Fellows who voted amounted to 63 , while there are about 700 Fellows , I am informed , however , that usually several who are actually present do not vote .
tive analogy to the process by which your Council awards the medals .
That examination is the most difficult which exists ; the prize is large , and the competition is free .
There is a course of mathematics , comprehending , I may say , everything ; a course of physics equally large ; a very large course of moral philosophy ; a course of metaphysics , of logic , classics , history , chronology , and Hebrew .
The examination is , of course , public ; and a person of experience , acquainted with the course , can usually at the close of the examination point out the successful candidate .
Some have answered better in one science , some in another , but acting under the guidance of a mature judgment , a kind of equitable adjustment has been made by the bystander , which has led him to the same conclusion as the examiners .
Now , let us see for a moment how this has been brought about .
The examiners , who are Fellows , are conversant to a certain extent with all the sciences ; and in measuring the value of each answer , they are governed by a wellmarked public opinion in the University , precisely as is the case with the enlightened audience ; and they come to the same conclusion .
But with your Council the case is necessarily very different .
However chosen , they cannot have within themselves the same means of discharging their very difficult duties in a way which will carry with it the full concurrence of the Society .
Take as an example the simplest case which can arise : two persons have been proposed for the medal , a chemist and a mathematician .
Upon the Council we will presume there is a first-rate chemist and a first-rate mathematician .
Now , in chemistry and in mathematics , and indeed in all the sciences , little discoveries are very abundant .
By what possible means can the chemist bring his mind to bear upon the little discoveries of the mathematician , so as to weigh them , even in the roughest manner , against the discoveries in his own science ?
Or will the mathematician be more fortunate in dealing with the discoveries of the chemist ?
But how is it with respect to the other members of the Council ?
There will probably be gentlemen representing the different branches of the natural sciences , also perhaps a geologist , an astronomer , an engineer .
Why , even in the very simple case I have supposed , the elements for the roughest approximation to a true conclusion are not within the Council , and it cannot be otherwise .
The Council must therefore beyond its limits for the necessary inlformation .
Individual members will naturally therefore , in an unofficial way , consult such Fellows not on the Council as are known to be conversant with the particular question at issue ; and , practically , if time permitted and opportunity offered , a large proportion of the ablest Fellows would exercise a guiding influence on the Council , leading them to correct conclusions .
Information would even be sought without the Society ; the prevalent opinions at the Universities would be looked for , and the state of public opinion abroad in scientific circles would in many cases have great weight .
I need hardly say , that as things are at present , this inquiry is impossible except to a very limited extent , and public opinion , even in our own body , can afford but little of that aid to the Council which it would do under more favourable circumstances .
If the medals were awarded in June , after discussion in several successive Councils at considerable intervals , while the great body of Fellows , the leading members of the Universities , and the foreigners who visit London , were in town , each member of the Council would have immediate access to the best sources of information .
Recently the experiment has been tried of proposing candidates for the medals before the recess , but without , I think , any practical advantage .
Where the candidates are numerous , inquiries would be endless ; and it is only when the number has been reduced , when the doubtful questions have been put prorninently forward by discussion , and a decision is imminent , that inquiries will be prosecuted with energy , and can be made with effect .
Finally , experience has shown that even in the transaction of the business of the nation , there is so much inconvenience in running counter to the habits and usages of society , that it is only in a case of necessity that Parliament is assembled in November .
With these or similar views , the subject was brought before your Council in 1845 ; and , as was announced by Lord Northampton , it was resolved to change the day of the anniversary to a season more generally convenient .
In his Address the year after he states that doubts had arisen as to the legality of the change without a new charter , and no serious effort appears to have been subsequently made to surmount the difficulty .
I believe it is well known that Sir Humphry Davy 's opinions on this subject were very similar to Lord Northampton 's , and I have heard that he had deliberately committed them to paper , setting out fully his views as to the prospects of science in this country , and the position the Royal Society should hold .
Such a document would be of great value , and I have anxiously inquired for it , but in vain .
This was the state of things at the time of my election as President , and after full consideration I took the first opportunity , at the anniversary in 1849 , of expressing my entire concurrence in the views of Lord Northampton .
It appeared to me , however , to be quite evident that there was not a strong and universal desire to change the day of the anniversary ; and that was to be expected .
There are certain associations , hallowed by time , to which we all recur with pleasure : when we meet on the 30th of November , our thoughts are led back to the auspicious day when the Royal Society was founded : we are reminded of Boyle , Wren , Hooke and Wallis , the first Fellows , and feel a just pride that we enjoy the high honour of being their successors .
Few , perhaps , would assent without some degree of reluctance to a change which would sever these ancient associations .
Feeling assured , therefore , that there were various shades of opinion , and having stated my views distinctly in my first address , I did not conceive it to be my duty to proceed further .
The next step would have been , to have directed the attention of the Council to its former decision as to the expediency of changing the anniversary , and to have obtained the best advice as to the means to be taken to effect that object .
I thought it better to let the matter rest for a time .
Had I thought otherwise , there was certainly no one by whom such a question could have been brought forward with less propriety , or less advantage , than your President .
He could not have recommended his arguments as springing from an unbiased mind , when he was in the position , not a very agreeable one , of being necessarily absent during the autumn and winter , when there was so much business of importance .
Now the case is different .
There is no longer any reason for reserve , and in expressing in my last address the same opinions as in my first address , I have ventured to express them more strongly , because experience has more fully confirmed them .
If we are to distribute medals , it is surely important that the award of the medals , like the award of the Fellowships in the University of Dublin , should carry with it the full approbation of the whole Society .
If we are to have meetings to transact business , it is of the highest importance to make them easily accessible to all Fellows by the choice of a suitable season , so that every person , whether on the Council or not , might have the opportunity of exercising his privileges with the least amount of personal inconvenience .
It is in this way we shall render the Royal Society even more popular than it is , and hasten its growth in strength and influence , so that it will become , not the Royal Society of London merely , but the Royal Society of the whole kingdom .
I have thus ventured to suggest certain changes as to the time and manner of transacting the business of the Royal Society : the objects we have in view would , I think , be much promoted by another innovation , which it requires some courage to propose .
I mean a large increase in the number of the Council .
From what I have observed , I am convinced that to enable the Council to exercise an effectual supervision over all the sciences , it is necessary to make ample room , so that each science should be fully represented .
There is another object perhaps of even greater importance to be attained by the same means , an effectual representation of all classes upon the Council , so that men of general attainments should have their place , and the government of the Society should not be exclusively entrusted to men , who , however eminent in especial branches of science , may not be always the most conversant with worldly affairs , or the most competent to transact that common-place business , upon which , in the main , the prosperity of Societies depends : nothing would do more than such a change , to promote harmony and good feeling within our walls ; nothing would contribute more to increase the influence of the Royal Society in advancing the general interests of science .
I have already ventured to say , that I had little doubt but that the memorial with its two hundred signatures in favour of juxtaposition , backed up by public opinion , would produce the desired result , and that before long we should see the leading scientific Societies under the same roof .
I think I cannot now err in expressing a confident belief , that whatever changes may be required in our Society to meet the just wishes of scientific men , will be carried out with readiness .
T'he progress of science will thus be promoted , and this country will gradually attain even a higher place in European science than that which it at present holds .
There is a new quarter , however , to which science may I think look hopefully , and that is the University of Oxford .
Last session an act was passed for effecting certain improvements in the University of Oxford .
Under that act a commission was appointed , consisting of men of learning and high station , to advise and cooperate with the governing body , and so effect such changes as might be useful .
At present it can scarcely be said that science at Oxford receives any substantial encouragement .
The fellowships are for the most part close , and therefore are not necessarily the rewards of learning ; and where they are open , the success of the candidate depends upon his proficiency in the ancient languages and literature .
Honours are indeed awarded to the mathematical and physical sciences , but they carry with them no emoluments ; and without any knowledge of the mathematical sciences except the elements of plane geometry , and without any knowledge whatever of the physical sciences , the highest University honours may be obtained .
A man therefore , after having very creditably passed a public school , and having taken his degree with a first class in literis humanioribus , may find that he knows no more.than was known 1800 years ago .
He may be ignorant of physics in its most elementary form , and may therefore be incapable of comprehending the first principles of machinery and manufactures , or of forming a just and enlarged conception of the resources of this great country .
That the legislation of last session should long continue unfruitful , I think , is improbable , and the time seems to be at hand when the cultivation of the physical sciences will receive a new impulse at our universities , and when the great resources of Oxford will , in part , be applied as the rewards of scientific eminence .
You are all , Gentlemen , no doubt aware , that in 1823 your Council , at the request of the Lords of the Treasury , appointed a Committee to report upon Mr. Babbage 's plan for the construction of a Calculating Machine , which he called a Difference Engine .
The Committee , I need hardly say , was composed of men eminent for their theoretical and practical acquaintance with such subjects : that Committee recommended the Lords of the Treasury to assist Mr. Babbage in carrying out his undertaking .
The Lords of the Treasuryacquiesced , and the work was proceeded with ; Mr. Babbage exercising a constant and vigilant superintendence , furnishing the designs , making the computations , in fact supplying all the theoretical requirements , while the Government supplied the manual labour and raw materials .
In the then backward state of mechanical engineering , great difficulties were encountered ; at length in 1828 the Royal Society was again consulted by Government , and the result was a report from a Committee , to the effect that satisfactory progress had been made , considering the difficulties , and that the engine was likely to answer the expectations of its inventor .
The Council adopted the report , and communicated it to Government , with a strong recommendation in favour of the undertaking .
The Government acting under that recommendation supplied further funds , on the condition that the engine was to be public property , and the work proceeded .
In 1830 the Royal Society was again consulted by Government , and the Council acting as on former occasions appointed a Committee .
The report which was drawn up in a detailed form was satisfactory to the Treasury , and the Council were informed that funds would be supplied from time to time till the engine was completed .
Very soon a new difficulty occurred ; it became necessary to change the engineer , and it was then found that by the rules of the trade , the tools , which had been constructed at the public expense , were the private property of the engineer : there was no choice , therefore , but to sacrifice the tools , or to endeavour to effect a compromise for a large sum .
The progress of the work was suspended : there was a change of government .
Science was weighed against gold by a new standard , and it was resolved to proceed no further .
No enterprise could have had its beginning under more auspicious circumstances : the Government had taken the initiative , they had called for advice , and the adviser was the highest scientific authority in this country ; --your Council , guided by such men as Davy , Wollaston and Herschel .
By your Council the undertaking was inaugurated , by your Council it was watched over in its progress .
That the first great effort to employ the powers of calculating mechanism , in aid of the human intellect , should have been suffered in this great country to expire fruitless , because there was no tangible evidence of immediate profit , as a British subject I deeplyregret , and as a Fellow my regret is accompanied with feelings of bitter disappointment .
Where a question has once been disposed of , succeeding Governments rarely reopen it ; still I thought I should not be doing my duty if I did not take some opportunity of bringing the facts once more before Government .
Circumstances had changed , mechanical engineering had made much progress , the tools required and trained workmen were to be found in the workshops of the leading mechanists , the founder 's art was so advanced that casting had been substituted for cutting in making the change wheels even of screw-cutting engines , and therefore it was very probable that persons would be found willing to undertake to complete the Difference Engine for a specific sum .
That finished , the question would then have arisen , how far it was advisable to endeavour , by the same means , to turn to account the great labour which had been expended under the guidance of inventive powers the most original , controlled by mathematics of a very high order ; and which had been wholly devoted for so many years to the great task of carrying the powers of calculating machinery to its utmost limits .
Before I took any step , I wrote to several very eminent men of science , inquiring whether in their opinion any great scientific object would be gained , if Mr. Babbage 's views , as explained in Menabrea 's little essay , were completely realized .
The answers I received were strongly in the affirmative .
As it was necessary the subject should be laid before Government in a form as practical as possible , I wrote to one of our most eminent mechanical engineers to inquire whether I should be safe in stating to Government that the expense of the Calculating Engine had been more than repaid in the improvements in mechanism directly referable to it : he replied , unquestionably .
Fortified by these opinions I submitted this proposition to Government:-that they should call upon the President of the Society of Civil Engineers to report whether it would be practicable to make a contract for the completion of Mr. Babbage 's Difference Engine , and if so , for what sum .
This was in 1852 , during the short administration of Lord Derby , and it led to no result .
The time was unfortunate , a great political contest was impending , and before there was a lull in politics , so that the voice of Science could be heard , Lord Derby 's government was at an end .
Although , in communicating with Lord Derby , I was not acting under the directions of your Council , still , as my object was to induce the Government to complete a work in which this Society had taken so great an interest , I conceived it to be my duty to lay the facts before you , as a basis to proceed upon , should it hereafter be considered expedient to renew the subject .
I have detailed to you regularly at each anniversary the proceedings of the Committee of Recommendations ; a Committee , as you are all probably aware , appointed to distribute the grant for scientific objects which was made to us by Government the first year of my Presidency , and has since been continued annually .
On the present occasion I have only to say , that since the last anniversary numerous reports have been received , and I hope the new Council will consider it expedient to collect the facts brought out , and arrange them in the form of a paper to be laid before Parliament .
With respect to the design for the re-examination of the heavens in the southern hemisphere , originally suggested by the British Association , and subsequently matured by your Council , I have only to say , as I said the last anniversary , that it is in the hands of Government .
There is no other subject which seems to me to call for observation ; the report of your Treasurer will give all necessary information as to financial matters , and it only remains for me to express the deep sense I feel of the great services which have been rendered to Science by your Councils during the six years I have been officially connected with them .
I am sure nothing could have exceeded their pains-taking industry , their complete devotion to your service .
In their hands your interests were watched over with anxious care , they were in perfect safe-keeping ; and when I was unavoidably absent , as was too often the case , I had no misgivings .
To your Council I return my sincere thanks ; to you , Gentlemen , I feel equally grateful ; and in retiring from your Presidency permit me to assure you , that although the position I am destined henceforth to occupy will be less prominent , my exertions for the welfare of your Society shall not be less earnest .
DR. SHARPEY , I am happy to have the honour of handing to you the Copley Medal , in charge for Professor Miuller .
The Copley Medal has been awarded to our distinguished Foreign Member , Professor Johannes Miiller of Berlin , for his important contributions to different branches of Physiology and Comparative Anatomy , and particularly for his researches on the Embryology and Structure of the Echinodermata , contained in a series of memoirs published in the Transactions of the Royal Academy of Berlin .
No one has borne a more conspicuous part in the advancement of physiological science for the last quarter of a century than Johannes Muiller , and there is none whose services in that department of natural knowledge are more deserving of honourable recognition .
So great , indeed , has been his scientific activity , that in the brief reference to his writings suited to this occasion , I am constrained to pass by much that is excellent and confine myself to those which most strikingly evince his merit in the several departments in which he has laboured .
At an early period of his career he published his well-known treatise on the Secreting Glands .
In this work he traces the intimate structure of these organs in the varied conditions which it presents , from the lowest animals to man ; and in particular he establishes on a more broad and satisfactory basis the true doctrine of the relation of the blood-vessels and ducts , as first correctly conceived by Malpighi ; indeed , since the time of the great anatomist of Bologna , no general work had appeared on the subject to be compared with that of Professor Miller .
Among his numerous contributions to Comparative Anatomy , I may specially single out his series of memoirs on the Myxinoid Fishes .
Of the scope and importance of this great work but a faint idea is conveyed by the title ; for while the anatomy of a particular family of fishes may be said to form its text , there is an ample commentary , rich in new and original matter , in which the structure is compared in other tribes , and the facts sagaciously applied to the elucidation of great questions in animal morphology .
In Physiology , Professor Muller has proved himself equally a master .
His " Handbook " has long held a high place in physiological literature , and under this modest designation not only presents clear expositions and enlightened discussions of truths already known , but is enriched throughout with the fruits of the author 's own observation and experimental inquiry .
Evidence of this may be found in almost every chapter , but it is sufficient to refer to his examination of the blood , to his disquisitions on the nervous system , and especially to his valuable experimental investigations on the voice and on hearing .
Professor Miiller early applied himself to the study of the structure and economy of the Echinoderms .
After describing , in a special memoir , the anatomy of the Pentacrinus , so interesting as a living representative of the extinct Crinoidea , and publishing , in conjunction with M. Troschel , a systematic arrangement and description of the Asterida , he was at length happily led to investigate the embryo life of this remarkable class of animals .
The field of inquiry on which he entered had scarcely been trenched upon before , and he has since made it almost wholly his own by persevering researches carried on at the proper seasons for the last nine years , on the shores of the North Sea , the Mediterranean and the Adriatic .
In this way he has investigated the larval conditions of four out of the five orders of true Echinoderms , and has successfully sought out and determined the common plan followed in their development , amidst remarkable and unlooked-for deviations in the larval organization and habits of genera even of the same order ; and his inquiries respecting these animals have made us acquainted with larval forms , with relations between the larva and future being , and with modes of existence , such as nature has not yet been found to present in any other part of the animal kingdom .
Finally , with the light thus derived from the study of their development , Professor Miiller has subjected the organization of the entire class of Echinoderms , both recent and fossil , to a thorough revision , and has added much that is new , as well as cleared up much that was obscure , in regard to their economy , structure and homologies .
It is to these researches , which occupy seven memoirs in the Transactions of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Berlin , that more special reference is made in the award of the Medal .
Besides their other claims to distinction , they may be justly regarded as revealing a new order of facts in the history of animal development .
DR. HOOKER , It was fortunate for natural science that you succeeded in obtaining the appointment of Naturalist to the Antarctic Expedition under Sir J. C. Ross , and that you fully availed yourself of the opportunities of pursuing your favourite studies which so frequently presented themselves during the progress of that arduous voyage .
The collections made during this voyage were extremely important , and have served as the foundation of a series of works illustrative of the botany of the Southern hemisphere .
The " Flora Antarctica , " which was commenced immediately after your return , at once established for you a high place as a philosophical botanist , by the accuracy and completeness with which each subject is treated , as well as by the importance of the physiological questions there discussed .
The value of the details of a systematic work can be best appreciated by those who use it as a guide , but the essay on the structure and affinities of the curious parasite Myzodendron , may be noticed as perhaps the most striking of the many special topics which are there treated of .
The peculiar configuration of the Southern hemisphere , in which the land bears so small a proportion to the sea , seems at an early period to have directed your attention to Geographical Botany , and to have led you to investigate critically one of the most difficult questions of natural science , which is now acquiring that prominence to which it is so well entitled , --I mean the question of the origin and distribution of species .
In your memoirs on the vegetation of the Galapagos Islands , you have brought together a great number of facts relative to insular floras , which throw much light upon this point of abstract science ; and in your Flora of New Zealand ( now in progress ) , you have discussed the question in all its bearings , in an essay which has attracted much attention , from the cautious and philosophical manner in which the subject is treated .
As Botanist to the Geological Survey of Great Britain , your attention was directed to the investigation of the extinct Flora ; and it is evident from the essay on the carboniferous vegetation published in their Records , that you devoted yourself to this task with the same energy which had characterized your previous labours .
In this essay an intimate knowledge of recent structure is applied to throw light upon the vegetation of remote periods in the history of the globe , and there is evinced a just appreciation of facts and a cautious spirit of induction , which make it one of the most important contributions ever made by Botany to Geology .
In the selection of the Himalaya as the field of further exploration , you seem to have been guided by a sagacious perception of the requirements of natural science ; and in the plain and artless narrative of that journey , we know not whether most to admire , the industry by which alone so much could have been done , the judicious selection of subjects of investigation , or the completeness of the results .
On that work , geographers , geologists , meteorologists , and botanists , in fact , cultivators of all branchesof natural science , have pronounced a unanimous verdict , which may be best summed up in the words of the illustrious Humboldt , the greatest of scientific travellers , as " a perfect treasure of important observations , in which a prodigious extent of previous knowledge is brought to bear upon every topic , and which is marked with great sagacity and moderation in all the views brought forward .
" DR. HOFMANN , A Royal Medal has been awarded to you , " for your Memoirs on the molecular constitution of the Organic Bases , contained in the Philosophical Transactions , and the Transactions of the Chemical Society .
" The long series of researches which are acknowledged in the present award , were commenced by your inquiries , published in 1844 , on the volatile bases contained in coal-gas naphtha , in which you recognized aniline , a base previously obtained from indigo , and leucoline , likewise derived from the decomposition of quinine , cinchonine , and strychnine .
In consequence of its extremely definite character , aniline was selected by you as the type of volatile bases , and investigated in all directions , with singular perseverance and success .
A variety of new compounds were thus obtained , bearing a fixed relation to the primitive body , such as chloraniline , bromaniline , nitraniline , melaniline , &amp;c. From these researches , and the facts supplied by other investigators , you were gradually led to a conception of the common constitution of this class of compounds , and obtained the means of producing substances of a similar constitution to an almost unlimited extent .
Oxide of ammonium is the general prototype , the hydrogen of that volatile base being replaced to the extent of one , two , three , or four equivalents , by a multitude of elementary and compound radicals .
Your method , also , of introducing these radicals into the constitution of ammonia , by the agency of the bromides and iodides of the radicals , has been found to admit of extensive application , and has very materially assisted in the general progress which organic chemistry has made since this method was made public .
DR. NEIL ARNOTT , I have much pleasure in announcing , that a Rumford Medal has been awarded to you , " for your construction of a new Smoke-consuming and Fuel-saving Fire-place , with accessories , ensuring the healthful warming and ventilation of houses , lately described in the Journal of the Society of Arts ( May 12 , 1854 ) , and for your various contributions to the elucidation of the principles and improvement of the practice of heating and ventilation .
"

