I. A Proposal of a Method for finding the Longitude at Sea within a Degree , or twenty Leagues .
By Dr. Edmund Halley , Astr .
Reg. VicePresident of the Royal Society .
With an Account of the Progress he hath made therein , by a continued Series of accurate Observations of the Moon , taken by himself at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich .
IT is now above twenty Years since I added an Appendix to the second Edition of Mr. Street 's Caroline Tables , containing a Set of Observations I had made in the Years 1683 and 1684 , for ascertaining the Moon 's Motion ; and giving a Specimen of what I thought , at that Time , might be the only practicable Method of attaining the Longitude at Sea .
What I printed so long ago , is as follows : The Advantages of the Art of finding the Longitude at Sea , are too evident to need any Arguments to prove them .
And having by my own Experience found the Impracticability of all other Methods proposed for that Purpose , but that derived from a perfect Knowledge of the Moon 's Motion ; I was ambitious , if possible , to overcome the Difficulties that attend the Discovery thereof .
And first , I had found it only needed a little Practice to be able to manage a five or six Foot Telescope , capable of showing the Appulses or Occultations of the Fixed Stars by the Moon , on Shipboard , in moderate Weather ; especially in the First and Last Quarters of the Moon 's Age , when her weaker Light does not so much efface that of the Stars .
Whereas the Eclipses of the Satellites of Jupiter , how proper soever for Geographical Purposes , were absolutely unfit at Sea , as requiring Telescopes of a greater Length than can well be directed in the rolling Motion of a Ship in the Ocean .
Now the Motion of the Moon being so swift , as to afford us scarce ever less than two Minutes for each Degree of Longitude , and sometimes two and a half ; it is evident , that were we able perfectly to predict the true Time of the Appulse or Occultation of a Fixed Star , in any known Meridian , we might , by comparing therewith the Time observed on Board a Ship at Sea , conclude safely how much the Ship is to the Eastward or Westward of the Meridian of our Calculus .
But after much Examination , and carefully collating the Caroline Tables of Mr. T. Street ( though generally better than those that went before him ) as likewise those of Tycho , Kepler , Bullialdus , and our Horrox , with many accurate Observations of the Moon , carefully made on Land ; it does not appear that any of these Tables do represent the Motions with the Certainty required ; and though many times the Agreement seems surprising , when the Errors of the several Equations compensate one another ; yet in those Parts of the Orb where they all fall the same Way , the Fault is intolerable , and the Result many times not to be depended on , to more than one hundred Leagues ; that is to say , it is wholly insufficient .
Yet still this Fault is Artificis , not Artis : For observing the Period of the Lunar Inequalities , which is performed in eighteen Years and eleven Days , or two hundred and twenty-three Lunations ; it is found that the Returns of the Eclipses , and other Phenomenon of the Moon 's Motion , are very regularly performed ; so that whatever Error you found in a former Period , the same in again repeated in a second , under the like Circumstances of the same Distance of the Moon from the Sun and Apogaeon .
Thus , from the Observation made of the Eclipse of the Sun , which was June 22 , 1666 , in the Morning , seen at London and Dantzick , I was enabled to predict , with great Certainty , that other , which I observed July 2 , 1684 , by allowing the same Error I found in the Calculus of the former .
And the like with equal Certainty will do , in the Cases extra Syzygias , when the Mean and Synodical Anomolies are nearly the same , about the same time of the Year .
Being thus assured , from the Certainty of these Revolutions , that all the intermediate Errors of our Tables were not uncertain Wandrings , but regular Faults of the Theories ; I next thought how I might best be informed of the Quantity and Places of these Defects : That being apprised how much , and which Way my Numbers erred , I might apply the Difference , so as at all times to represent the true Motion of the Moon .
Nor was there any other Way , but from the Heavens themselves , to derive this Correction , by a sedulous and continued Series of Observations , to be collated with the Calculus , and the Errors noted in an Abacus : From whence , at all Times , under the like Situation of the Sun and Moon , I might take out the Correction to be allowed .
And having by me the Sextant I made to observe the Southern Stars at St. Helena , in the Year 1677 , I fixed it for this Purpose ; resolving to have continued to observe , till I had filled my Abacus , so as it might have the Effect of exact Lunar Tables , capable to serve at Sea , for finding the Longitude with the desired Certainty .
With this Design , I applied the Leisure I had procured myself about the Year 1683 , to observe diligently , as often as the Heavens would permit , the true Place of the Moon , especially as to Longitude ; and in the Space of about sixteen Months I had gotten near two hundred several Days Observations , most of which I collated with the Horroxian Theory ( whose Calculus is something more compendious than that of Mr. Street ) and having placed the Errors in an Abacus , I perceived how regular the Irregularities , were , and that where the Moon had been exactly observed formerly , at the Distance of one or more Periods of two hundred twenty-three Months , I could even predict the Error of the Tables , with a Certainty not much inferior to that of the Observations themselves .
But this Design of mine was soon interrupted by unforeseen domestic Occasions , which obliged me to postpone all other Considerations to that of the Defence of my Patrimony : And , since then , my frequent Avocations have not permitted me to reassume these Thoughts .
In the mean time I have taken Care to present my Observations , such as they are , to the Public , in order to preserve them ; assuring , that as on the one Hand they were made with a very sufficient Instrument , with all the Care and Diligence requisite ; so in the remote Voyages I have since taken to ascertain the Magnetic Variations , they have been of signal Use to me , in determining the Longitude of my Ship , as often as I could get Sight of a near Transite of the Moon by a known Fixed Star : And thereby I have frequently corrected my Journal from those Errors which are unavoidable in long Sea-Reckonings .
If therefore you happen at Sea to observe nicely the Time of an Occultation or close Application of a Star to the Moon ; and can find a correspondent Observation , about the same mean Anomaly and Distance of the Moon from the Sun ( either among these of mine , or in any other Collection of Observations accurately made ) especially near the same Time of the Year ; and , above all , after the aforesaid Period of eighteen Years and eleven Days , you may , without sensible Error , from thence pronounce in what Meridian your Ship is ; taking Care in so operose a Calculation , to commit no Mistake ; and , notwithstanding the Direction the Moon gives you , not confiding so much therein as to omit any of the usual Precautions to preserve a Ship when she approaches the Land .
I had intended to insist more largely upon this Method of obtaining the Moon 's Place , and , by Consequence , the Longitude at Sea , but that I find , that it requires a just Treatise , too long to be here subjoined : And , more especially , that the great Sir Isaac Newton ( to whom no Mathematical Difficulty is insuperable ) has been pleased to give us a True and Physical Theory of the Moon 's Motions , whereby the Defects of all former Tables are so far amended , that it is hoped the Error may scarce ever exceed three Minutes of Motion , or so little in Longitude ; that , perhaps , it may be thought a sufficient Exactness for all the Uses of Navigation .
If therefore what is here offered find a kind Acceptance from those that it chiefly concerns , I shall be encouraged to proceed on a Work I have long meditated , to improve the abovementioned Period , as to the abbreviating the Computation of Eclipses , and , in general , to facilitate the too laborious Calculation of the Moon 's Place extra Syzygias .
Not long after her late Majesty Queen Anne was pleased to bestow upon the Public , an Edition of the much greater , and most valuable Part of Mr. Flamsteed 's Observations ; by Help of which the great Sir Isaac Newton had formed his curious Theory of the Moon , a first Sketch of which was inserted by Dr. David Gregory in his Astronomiae Physicae &amp; Geometricae Elementa , published at Oxford , 1702 ; and again , in the second Edition of Sir Isaac 's Principia , which came out in 1713 , we have the same revised and amended by himself , to that Degree of Exactness , that the Faults of the Computus formed therefrom rarely exceed a quarter Part of what is found in the best Lunar Tables before that Time extant .
Being thus provided with proper Materials , viz. a large Set of Observations , and a Theory of the Motions so very near the Truth , I resumed my former Design of filling up my Abacus or Synopsis of the Defects of this Lunar Theory , and made Tables to expedite the Calculus according thereto , and compared the Numbers thereof with many of the most certain of Mr. Flamsteed 's Places observed .
By this it was evident that Sir Isaac had spared no Part of that Sagacity and Industry so peculiar to himself , in settling the Epoches , and other Elements of the Lunar Astronomy , the Result many times , for whole Months together , rarely differing two Minutes of Motion from the Observations themselves ; nor is it unlikely but good Part of that Difference may have been the Fault of the Observer .
And where the Errors were found greater , it was in those Parts of the Lunar Orb where Mr. Flamsteed had very rarely given himself the Trouble of observing ; viz. in the third and fourth Quarter of the Moon 's Age , where sometimes these Differences would amount to at least five Minutes .
Mr. Flamsteed was long enough possessed of the Royal Observatory to have had a continued Series of Observations for more than two Periods of eighteen Years ; by which he had it in his Power to have done all that could be expected from Observation , towards discovering the Law of the Lunar Motions .
But he contented himself with sparse Observations , leaving wide Gaps between , so as to omit frequently whole Months together ; and in one Case the whole Year 1716 .
So that notwithstanding what he has left us must be acknowledged more than equal to all that was done before him , both as to the Number and Accuracy of his Accounts ; yet for want of an uninterrupted Succession of them , they are not capable of discovering , in the several Situations of the Lunar Orbit , what Corrections are necessary to be allowed , to supply the Deficiencies of our Computus .
On Mr. Flamsteed 's Decease , about the Beginning of the Year 1720 , his late Majesty King George I. was graciously pleased to bestow upon me the agreeable Post of his Astronomical Observer , expressly commanding me to apply my self with the utmost Care and Diligence to the rectifying the Tables of the Motions of the Heavens , and the Places of the Fixed Stars , in order to find out the so much desired Longitude at Sea , for the perfecting the Art of Navigation .
These are the Words of my Commission ; and here I might have thought myself in a Condition to put in Execution my long projected Design of completing my Abacus , or Table of the Defects of our Lunar Numbers ; but on taking Possession , I found the Observatory wholly unprovided of Instruments , and indeed of every thing else that was moveable , which postponed my Endeavours till such Time as I could furnish myself with an Apparatus capable of the Exactness requisite .
And this was the more grievous to me , on account of my advanced Age , being then in my sixty-fourth Year , which put me past all Hopes of ever living to see a complete Period of eighteen Years Observation .
But , Thanks to GO D , he has been pleased hitherto to afford me sufficient Health and Vigour to execute my Office in all its Parts with my own Hands and Eyes , without any Assistance or Interruption , during one whole Period of the Moon 's Apogee ; which Period is performed in somewhat less than nine Years .
In this Time I have been able to observe the Right Ascension of the Moon at her Transit over the Meridian , near fifteen hundred times ( and with an Exactness , I am bold to say , preferable to any thing done before ) a Number not less than those of the noble Tycho Brahe , Hevelius and Flamsteed , taken in one Sum , there being near four of my Lunar Observations for each Degree of the Zodiac , as also for each Degree of the Argumentum annuum , or Distance of the Sun from the Moon 's Apogee .
And that these might be duly applied to rectify the Defects of our Computations , I have myself compared with the aforementioned Tables , made according to Sir Isaac 's Principles , not only my own Observations , but also above eight hundred of Mr. Flamsteed 's .
This Comparison of my own Observations ( from the Time I esteem them complete ) with the Computus by the said Tables , being now continued for above nine Years , I design speedily to communicate it to the Public , together with the Tables themselves , which have been printed , and should long since have been published , had not my Post at Greenwhich given me an Opportunity to examine , with proper Nicety , in what Parts of the Lunar Orb , and how much , our Numbers erred .
So useful an Addition as this , it is hoped may fully answer the long delayed Expectation some Persons may have had of seeing the said Tables sooner .
By Means thereof , those that are qualified may , if they please , examine by their own Observation the Truth of what is here asserted .
Comparing likewise many of the most accurate of Mr. Flamsteed , made eighteen or thirty-six years before ( that is one or two Periods before mine ) with those of mine which tallied with them , I had the Satisfaction to find that what I had proposed in 1710 was fully verified ; and that the Errors of the Calculus in 1690 and 1708 , for Example , differed insensibly from what I found in the like Situation of the Sun and Apogee , in the Year 1726 .
The great Agreement of the Theory with the Heavens compensating the Differences that might otherwise arise from the Incommensurability and Excentricity of the Motions of the Sun , Moon and Apogee .
Encouraged by this Event , I next examined what Differences might arise from the Period of nine Years wanting nine Days , in which Time there are performed very nearly one hundred and eleven Lunations , or Returns of the Moon to the Sun ; but the Return of the Sun to the Apogee in that Time differing above four times as much from an exact Revolution as in the Period of eighteen Years , I could not expect the like Agreement in that .
However , having now entered upon the tenth Year , I compared what I had observed in the years 1721 and 1722 , with my late Observations of 1730 and 1731 , and have rarely found a Difference of more than one single Minute of Motion ( Part of which may probably arise from the small Uncertainty that always attends Astronomical Observation ) but most commonly this Difference was wholly insensible ; so that by the Help of what I observed in 1722 , I presume I am able to compute the true Place of the Moon with Certainty , within the Compass of two Minutes of her Motion , during this present Year 1731 , and so for the future .
This is the Exactness requisite to determine the Longitude at Sea to twenty Leagues under the Equator , and to less than fifteen Leagues in the British Channel .
It remains therefore to consider after what Manner Observations of the Moon may be made at Sea with the same Degree of Exactness : But since our worthy Vice-President John Hadley , Esq ; ( to whom we are highly obliged for his having perfected and brought into common Use the Reflecting Telescope ) has been pleased to communicate his most ingenious Invention of an Instrument for taking the Angles with great Certainty by Reflection , ( Vide Transact. No 420 .
) it is more than probable that the same may be applied to taking Angles at Sea with the desired Accuracy .

