VIII .
On Irregularities observed in the direction of the Compass Needles of H. M. S. Isabella and Alexander , in their late Voyage of Discovery , and caused by the attraction of the iron contained in the Ships .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Regiment of Artillery , F. R. S. &amp;c. Read February 18 , 1819 .
T is proposed in this paper to show in what respects the effects of local attraction , in the above mentioned ships , were conformable to the observations which had been made in preceding voyages ; and how far the errors , which were found to take place on different courses , and under different dips of the magnetic needle , corresponded with the rules for calculating corrections , which Captain FLINDERS had found useful in his own experience , and which he had recommended for a more extensive trial .
It may be desirable to premise , that the irregularities here alluded to , are not those accidental disturbances which may be caused by iron placed inadvertently too near the compasses ; but the permanent , and constant effect of the mass of iron contained in a ship , affecting its compasses at all times , and in a greater or less degree , according as its influence is more or less powerful , in comparison to the directive force of the earth 's magnetism .
That errors have always existed from this cause , may be inferred , from the uncertainty which experience has attached to the results of azimuths observed in ships .
The cause , however , appears to have been very long unsuspected , whilst its effects had produced a general impre ; .sion , that the azimuth compass was in itself an imperfeci instrument , and only to be relied on within certain undefined and variable limits .
It was reserved to the accurate observation , and the habit of recording and comparing apparently trivial and accidental differences in results , which distinguished the late Mr. WALES ( astronomer in the second voyage of Captain COOK , ) to enable him to lead the way to a knowledge of the nature and causes of these errors ; he remarks , " that in the passage of the Resolution and Adventure to the Cape of Good Hope , and subsequently , the greatest west variations had happened when the ship 's head was north and easterly , and the least when it was south and westerly , differing very materially from one another with the ship 's head in different positions , and still more when observed in different ships ; " thus manifesting that they were something more than accidental .
This voyage was the last in which Mr. WALES embarked , and the investigation does not appear to have been pursued in this country until the voyage of discovery to Terra Australis , in the first years of the present century .
The survey of the coast of New Holland being carried on in a considerable measure , by the intersection of compass bearings taken from the deck of the Investigator , so much embarrassment and per ) plexity were found to arise from the effects of local attraction , that much of Captain FLIrNDERS'S attention and thoughts were necessarily devoted , to a consideration of some means of remedying the inconvenience .
On his return to England , he obtained permission from the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to make a course of experiments in ships under their direction at the principal sea ports , with a view to ascertain if compasses were similarly affected in other ships , and to try the general applicability of rules which he had found useful in correcting the errors in the Investigator .
These rules , with the observations and reasonings on which they were founded , were published in a short paper in the Philosophical Transactions , and in a more detailed form in Appendix No. II .
in the Voyage to Terra Australis .
There are three points in these statements chiefly worthy of attention , from their practical importance ; and on which it seems desirable , therefore , to notice how far his observations have been confirmed by those made in the Isabella and Alexander .
FIRST ; he found that in every ship a compass would differ very materially from itself , on being removed from one part of the ship to another .
Experience of this source of irregularity , had induced him early in his voyage , to confine the use of the compass , with which his survey was carried on , to one particular spot .
The place he selected was determined by convenience in other respects ; it was on the binnacle , and exactly amidships .
The Isabella and Alexander had not completed half their voyage across the Atlantic , before it was found that the binnacle compasses of the one ship differed very materially , in indicating the course steered , from those of the other namely , one point , or i i3 .
No dependence whatsoever could be placed on the agreement of compasses in different parts of the ship , or of the same compass with itself , if removed .
but a few inches : even in the neighbourhood of the binnacles the variation , as observed amidships , was from 8 ?
to 10o 11A greater than the result of azimuths taken by a compass placed between twoor three feet on the larboard side ; and an almost equal difference in a contrary direction took plac on removing the compass to the starboard side , rendeing it a matter of some trouble and difficulty , to make the azimuth compass agree with those in the binnacle by which the ship was steered , and for which it was therefore necessary to determine the variation .
As the ships ascended Davis 's Strait , these latter compasses began to traverse so sluggishly , that it was necessary to shake the binnacles continually to assist their motion .
The cards of these had a metal rim round their circumference , weighing one ounce , eleven drams avoirdupois , which , as the directive power of magnetism diminished , became too heavy for the needle to carry round : they were also frequently found to disagree with each other from 4 or J of a point ; the consequence , most probably , of the different local attraction to which they were exposed .
These compasses ceased therefore to be attended to , except as an occasional assistance to the helmsman , and a position was selected in each ship , in which a compass on a more suitable construction was permanently fixed ; by this the ship 's course was directed , azimuths taken , and bearings of land , &amp;c. noted , during the voyage .
This standard compass , as it may be called , was placed in the Isabella exactly amidships , between the main and mizzen mast , on a stout cross beam elevated nine or ten feet-above the deck ; this beam was the usual walk of the Greenland pilot , or of the quarter master , as affording a better view of the ice among which the ships were frequently steered , than * Bu T 's patent binnacle compasses .
from the deck .
The elevatioi was an advantage to the compass in such high magnetic latitudes , by rendering it less liable to accidental disturbance , on the removal of such implements of iron as were required to be kept on deck for use .
The Alexander not having a similar cross beam , her compass was fixed amidships ohn a box of sand placed on the companion , between five and six feet above the deck .
SECONDLY ; Captain FLINDERS found that in his compass pertma'nently fixed as described , no error took place when the ship 's head was on the magnetic north or south points ; showing , that at such times the attraction of the ship , and of magnetism , i were in the same lineof direction .
The maximum of error also took place when the ship 's head was at rightangles to these points ; namely , at east or west ; being howiever ti opposite directions , in excess of the true variation on the one side , and in defect on the other ; so that the extreme difference occasioned by altering the course from east to west or the reverse , would be twie the error at either .
On the intermediate points , the ratio of the error to its maximum was as the " sine of the angle between the ship 's head and the magnetic meridian to the sine of eight points or radius , " or sufficiently near to admit of corrections being calculated for every course , when the error on a single one was known by observation .
Thus farthe experiments which Captain FLINDERS tried in every ship corresponded , excpting only that the maximum of error in different ships at the same place would differ materially .
The accordance in so many ships gave him reason to believe that in compasses placed near the binnacle , and amidships , the points ofno error would be most commonly those of the magnetic meridian .
Considering , however , that this must depend altogether on the distribution of iron , and may be therefore liable to great diversity , he recommends , that , in every ship , as soon as a fixed position has been selected for a compass , the points of no error should be determined by repeated observation .
The method that was adopted for this purpose in the late voyage appearing both simple and effectual , it may be useful to exemplify it by an instance or two .
The Isabella being at anchor in Brassa Sound , Shetland , her head was placed , by means of warps , on each point of the compass successively , and the bearing of a pile of stones on the summit of a distant hill noted by her compass at each point ; at the same time that these observations were made on board , her bearing from the hill was also observed by a compass placed on the pile of stones ; the agreement in bearing showed the points of no error , and the differences the errors in each point , without the calculation which azimuths involve .
-See P1 .
X. fig. i.3 The Alexander being along side a floe of ice in Baffin 's Bay , the true agnetic bearing from the ship , of a very distant and well defined object on the main land , was found by carrying a compass on the ice in an opposite direction , to a -distance which ' insured its being perfectly free from local influence .
The ship 's head being then warped round to each point of the compass successively , the errors in each were determined by the difference in bearing , as in the last instance .
[ See P. X fig. .
The regularity in the above results is the best testimony that the method is a atisfactory one .
Certain precautions must be attended to : thus , the object must be sufficiently 117 distant , that the space occupied in warping the ship round may not subtend any sensible parallax .
The direction of the ship 's head should be noted by the compass by which the bearings are taken .
A short time must be allowed to elapse after the ship is steady on any point , to ensure the traversing of the cards : this is particularly necessary in Ihigh latitudes when the compasses move very sluggishly .
And lastly , the observations should be repeated .
It will be observed by the above results , in the Isabella and Alexander , that the points of no error were 1 c.ot coincident in either ship with those of the mag netic meridian ; in the Alexander especially , they were more nearly at right angles to it .
That this ship should have differed so naterially from all the instances on record , may be attributed to her compass , being so near the level of the deck , and therefore being more affected by the influence of a considerable quantity of iron articles ( such as ice anchors , ice saws , &amp;c. ) which were carried on the after part of the deck for convenience in use , than it would have been , had it been raised higher .
This was proved by placing a compass on a plank elevated for experiment in front of the comnanion , to the same height as in the Isabella , namely , nine or ten feet .
The points of no error were found , in this position , to be about northi and south , and the amount of error at eight points , nearly twenty degrees ; the same as in the Isabella : the greatest error at the same time , by the Alexander 's standard compass , viz. the one nearer the decks , being 8 ? ?
2o ' at N. N. E , The dip was 84 ?
o9 ' .
The propriety of Captain FLINDERS'S recommendation , to determine the points of no error in a fixed compass by actual observation in every ship as soon as the distribution of iron is comspleted , may therefore be considered as confirmed by the observations in the Isabella and Alexander ; whilst his rule of proportion may receive a verbal alteration to render it more suitable for general application : so corrected , it would be as follows .
The expressions substituted being marked in italics , and the original words entered in the margin .
" The error produced in any direction of the ship 's head , will be to the error at the point of East or west .
the greatest irregularity , as the sine of the angle between the ship 's head and the points of no Magnetic meridian , error to the sine of eight points or radius .
" THIRDLY ; Capt. FLINDEIRs 's experience in the Investigator showed that the maximum of error in the same compass , would be different in different parts of the world , although the use of the compass was confined to one particular spot in the ship , and every precaution taken to avoid an interference with the distribution of the ship 's iron .
It is worthy of remark , that by multiplying observations and by comparing the series one with another , he was thus practically led to trace a connection between the antount of the errors and the dip of the needle ; a knowledge of the fact preceding , in his mind , any theoretic suggestion that such might be the case .
It does not appear indeed that the principal cause of this connection was even subsequently known to him ; he perceived that the influence of local attraction on the compass needle increased as the dip became greater .
He endeavoured to account for this circumstance , on a supposition that all iron iimight receive an absolute increase in the intensity of its attractive power by approaching the magnetic pole .
The increase , however , which was the subject of his observation , was a relative one , being in comparison to the directive power of magnetism .
A diminution in the latter would therefore produce the effect equally withI an absolute augmentation in the former ; and that such a diminution does take place , and in a degree which is sufficient to account for all the effects observed , will be evident to every person , who reflects that although the nagnetic force is greatest at the pole , its directive power must then have wholly ceased , having become less on the horizontal traversing of the needle in proportion as the point of attraction has been brought beneath the compass ; indicated by the angle which the dipping needle makes with the horizon .
This is doubtless the principal cause of the connection which Captain FLINDERS was the first to trace .
It is not designed to say that this cause may not be aided by the increased magnetism of portions of the ship 's iron , such as bars and stanchions ; which being fixed in an upright position , may receive an addition to their attractive power where the position of the dipping needle is always coincident with theirs ; but merely to observe , that a cause is known to exist for the connection , independently of supposition ; which cause , conjointly with experience , shows the inadequacy of the rule proposed by Captain FLINDERS , whereby the amount of error , under any known dip , being ascertained , the amount may be calculated for any other dip , by using as a multiplier , the decimal expression of the proportion which 1 20 the error , in the one ascertained instance , may have borne to the dip .
In the observations made in the Isabella at Shetland , where the dip is 74 ? ?
21I ' , the maximum of error was 5 ? ?
34 ' easterly of the true variation , with the ship 's head at E. S. E. and 5 ? ?
46 ' westerly at W. N.W. making an extreme difference of 1 ?
0o ' .
By Captain FLINDERS'S rule , the common multiplier for this compass would have been about one twelfth , or.083 , which at a dip of 86 ?
o9f , which was the greatest observed during the late voyage , would have given an error of between 7 ?
and 8 ?
, making the extreme difference 15 ?
; whereas repeated observation showed it to be at that time more nearly 50 ?
, if not exceeding that amount .
The inadequacy of the rule will also appear by reference to the observations made by the Alexander in Baffin 's Bay , The error at eight points being 6 ? ?
46 ' , at a dip of 84 ?
-o ' ; it ought scarcely to have exceeded 7 ?
at the greatest possible dip , making an extreme difference of less than 15 ? .
No opportunity occurred indeed of making accurate observations at a greater dip than the above ; but the difference in the bearing of objects before and after tacking indicated with sufficient certainty , that the error had increased to an amount very far beyond 15 ?
; frequent instances of an extreme difference of from 3 to 4 points being remarked , as the ship approached the farthest western longitude to which she attained in a high latitude ; this was in Lancaster 's Sound of Baffin , into which inlet the expedition sailed beyond the 81 ?
of west longitude in the parallel of 74 ?
and a few minutes .
It is much to be regretted that the service did not admit an opportunity to be afforded , of making observations on the various magnetic phenomena , with the excellent instruments supplied to the expedition , at this very interesting place ; where a nearer approach was made to one of the magnetic poles than had ever been known before .
But in the absence of any actual observation on the dip of the needle , this fact of the error of the compasses having increased from local attraction so greatly beyond the amount which had been before observed , is worthy of notice , as affording an indication that the dip had also increased , and not inconsiderably .
The greatest which was observed , was 86 ?
o9 ' ; and after this observation , the ships continued to sail for six days in the direction in which the dip had hitherto been found to increase .
In concluding this paper , it may be permitted to remark , that it is to the voyages of discovery undertaken during the reign of his present Majesty , that a knowledge of the extent and causes of the errors to which a compass is subject in ships , is to be principally attributed ; as well as the steps that have been taken towards the investigation and remedy of the inconvenience they occasion to practical navigation .
The care and exertions of Captain FLINDERS in collecting observations for this purpose , give his opinions and rules a peculiar claim to attentive consideration .
No one could have been more fully persuaded than he was , that a rule , founded on the effects experienced in a few ships , would require a far more extensive trial , before it could be depended on for general application .
To carry this on , therefore , is to follow his useful example , and to effect what he was desirous to have done himself , had his life been spared .
Pliizs .
Tz'e .
A'ZD .
MDCCCXIX .
PF.te X..J122 .
-1i-j , 'I / .
, , Il l !
II !
1 fl , ~~~s ~~ " . .
/ / Y/ .
Y ... \\ .
rte iT CIj tL~I~L ; SrfEAST 44 / / -f " -+.\\\ " , !
l z , / ~/ ( / /\ e\ S4 i , , .
/ *J6 ?
q\ c , 0 / , S. ?
./ $Y t~.2 .
II = ... X IL II__ __ ?
I --r7------T117-- ?
-C-r ? .
Iii iI ll Il II I

