II .
" On the Colouring and Extractive Matters of Urine."-Part II .
By EDWARD SCHUNCK , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1866k .
Before entering on a consideration of the analytical details contained in the first part of this memoir , it will be necessary to deteriine the exact number of urinary extractive matters , the existence of which I am justified in assuming after having brought the examination of their composition to a close .
Berzelius , as I have before stated , inferred from his experiments that human urine contained three distinct extractive matters , one soluble in absolute alcohol , another soluble only in alcohol of sp. gr. 0'833 , and a third insoluble in alcohol of all strengths , and only soluble in water .
A similar conclusion would probably be arrived at by any one perusing the account which I have given of imy own experiments without at the same time possessing any information regarding the chemical nature of the compounds analyzed .
Nevertheless this conclusion would be incorrect , since a few simple experiments suffice to prove that the extractive matter insoluble in alcohol is not a distinct substance , but invariably contains a quantity of alkaline or earthy bases , on the removal of which the organic matter with which they were combined becomes soluble in alcohol , and that the extractive matters peculiar to urine are only two in number , the first being soluble in ether and alcohol , the second soluble in alcohol only .
This infereince is quite consistent with the results derived from the analyses of the lead coinpounds obtained on various occasions from the extractive matter insoluble in alcohol , the details of which have been given in the first part of this memoir .
A specimen of the extractive matter insoluble in alcohol was preparedc in the following manner:-Ordinary urine was mixed with acetate of lead , and the precipitate thereby produced having been separated , basic acetate of lead was added to the liquid , and the second lead precipitate was filtered off , washed , and treated with dilute sulphuric acid .
The excess of ' the latter was removed by means of carbonate of lead , and the filtered liquid was evaporated to a syrup , which was treated with alcohol .
The latter left a portion of the syrup undissolved ; and this portion , after being washed with alcohol , was again dissolved in water and sulphuretted hydrogen was passed through the solution , which , after being filtered from the precipitated sulphide of lead , was treated with peroxide of mercury and metallic mercury , for the purpose of removing the hydrochloric acid contained in it .
After standing some time and being frequently agitated the liquid was filtered , and sulphuretted hydrogen was passed through it in order to precipitate the nercury in solution , and after being again filtered it was evaporated .
The residue left oi evaporation was dissolved in a little water , and the solution was mixed with alcohol as long as any precipitate was produced ; the precipitate collected at the bottom of the vessel forming a brown glutinous * Read June 21 , 1866 : see Abstract , vol. xv .
p. 1 .
[ IRecess , 126 deposit , which , after pouring off the supernatant liquid , was dissolved in water .
The solution on being evaporated over sulphuric acid left a residue , consisting of what would be called the urinary extractive matter insoluble in alcohol .
It had the appearance of a dark brown , amorphous , brittle , gum-like mass , opaque in thick layers , but translucent at the edges .
It had a slightly acid and nauseous taste .
It was easily reduced by pounding to a light brown powder , and when exposed to the air it did not appear to deliquesce ; but on being afterwards heated in the water-bath it swelled up considerably and became filled with small cavities or vesicles , caused doubtless by the escape of the water which it had absorbed from tho atmosphere .
Its watery solution , which was of a dark yellowish-brown colour , had an acid reaction .
Its external properties did not differ materially from those ascribed to this substance by Berzelius , who says , " It has a yellowish-brown colour , is opaque in the mass ; it has a slightly bitter taste , remains dry in the air , and dissolves in water with a dark yellow colour .
" Now the substance as thus prepared was found to contain a considerable quantity of bases , by combination with which the organic constituents were rendered insoluble in alcohol .
On being heated on platinum foilit swelled up considerably , and gave off gaseous products having a smell like that of burning bread , leaving at last a porous charcoal , which was with great difficulty reduced to ash .
The ash was greyish-brown and alkaline , but for the most part insoluble in water ; it consisted of oxide of iron , alumina , carbonate of lime , magnesia , carbonate of soda , and a trace of potash .
A quantitative determination of the ash yielded the following results : 0 7665 grm. of the substance heated for some time in the water-bath gave 0-1025 grm. ash =13'37 per cent. The finely powdered substance communicated no colour whatever to absolute alcohol ; but on adding a few drops of concentrated sulphuric acid and allowing to stand for some time , the liquid acquired a deep yellow colour , exactly like that of solutions of the extractive matter soluble in alcohol .
The matter left undissolved by the acid mixture was , after pourin ?
g off the liquid and washing with alcohol , treated with water , in which the greatest part dissolved , but without communicating much colour to the liquid ; it consisted of the sulphates of lime , magnesia , and other bases .
This experiment alone would suffice to prove that the substance contained the extractive matter soluble in alcohol in combination with various bases .
A further proof was afforded by another experiment .
The watery solutions of the urinary extractive matters become considerably darker on the addition either of strong mineral acids , such as hydrochloric acid , or of alkalies .
The deepening of colour in the former case is due to decomposition , in the latter to mere combination .
Now on taking five equal measures of a watery solution of the substance under examination , adding to the first merely water , to the second acetic acid , to the third dilute hydrochloric acid , to the fourth water and sufficient caustic potash to made it just alkaline , and to the fifth strong hydrochloric acid , taking care that the bulk of 1867 .
] 127 the five liquids should be exactly the same , and then , after pouring them into test-tubes of the same bore , comparing together the tints which they exhibited , the following differences were observed:-The second was a little lighter than the first ; the third , however , was much lighter ; whilst the fourth was as dark as , but not darker than the first ; and the fifth appeared hardly darker than the third ; but on being boiled a few moments and allowed to cool , its tint was as dark as that of the first .
Hence it follows that the colour of the substance owed a part of its intensity to the presence of an alkaline or other base ; for had this not been the case , had the extractive matter been in an uncombined state , the addition of dilute acid would have caused a deepening of the tint , or at least have left it unchanged instead of making it lighter , whereas the alkali would have produced a darkening of the colour .
The addition of a large excess of acid lowered the intensity of the colour in the first instance , in consequence of the acid combining with the bases ; but on heating the solution it had the effect of deepening the colour , from the decomposing action of the acid on the now free extractive matter .
In order to isolate the organic body , or bodies , contained in the substance , some of the latter was dissolved in water , and to the solution basic acetate of lead was added .
This deprived the solution of its colour , giving an abundant cream-coloured precipitate , which was filtered off , washed , suspended in water , and decomposed with sulphuretted hydrogen .
The filtered liquid was evaporated at a gentle heat , when it left a brown glutinous residue .
This , when burnt , still left a considerable quantity of ash , which was yellow and non-alkaline , and consisted chiefly of alumina with a little oxide of iron and a trace of lime .
WYhen treated with absolute alcohol , a great part of this glutinous matter dissolved , yielding a deep yellow solution , while a quantity of light-brown flocks was left undissolved .
The filtered liquid left on evaporation a brownish-yellow deliquescent substance , which had the appearance and properties of the extractive matter soluble in alcohol .
When burned , it left only a slight trace of ash .
When treated with boiling caustic alkaline lye it evolved ammonia .
It was perfectly insoluble in ether , and was therefore free from the extractive matter soluble in that menstruum .
Its watery solution , when mixed with sulphuric acid and heated for some time , deposited a quantity of dark brown flocks , which , after being filtered off , washed , and dried , had the appearance of a dark brown , almost black powder ( uromelanine ) , which was almost insoluble in alcohol , but dissolved readily in aqueous ammonia , giving a brown solution , from which it was reprecipitated by acids in brown flocks .
This is the most characteristic property of the extractive matter soluble in alcohol and insoluble in ether , and serves to distinguish it from the one soluble in ether , which yields , by decomposition with strong acids , a brown resinous substance , easily soluble in alcohol ( uroretine ) .
That portion of the substance derived from the precipitate with basic acetate of lead , which was left undissolved by absolute alcohol in the shape of light brown flocks , was easily soluble in water .
128 The solution yielded on evaporation a yellow , brittle , transparent , gum-like substance , which , when burnt , left a considerable quantity of reddishyellow ash .
Hence it appears that the precipitate with basic acetate of lead contained , besides oxide of lead , other bases in combination with the organic bodies , a portion of it consisting probably of double compounds of extractive matter with lead , alumina , lime , &amp;c. Similar compounds , without doubt , were present in the original precipitate thrown down from urine by basic acetate of lead .
By the second precipitation a great portion of the alkaline or earthy bases was removed , the portion which remained forming , by combination with a part of the extractive matter , a compound insoluble in alcohol .
The substance under examination contained , however , in addition to extractive matter , a body having , like glucose , the property of reducing an alkaline solution of copper , a property which does not belong to either of the extractive matters in a state of purity .
On mixing the watery solution with sulphate of copper and an excess of caustic soda , it assumed a bright green colour , and on being boiled deposited an abundance of suboxide of copper .
The body producing this reaction cannot be separated from the extractive matter insoluble in ether by the use of solvents , since they behave in the same manner towards ordinary menstrua , nor by crystallization , as both are , as usually obtained , amorphous .
Both substances are also precipitated from the watery solution by basic acetate of lead , and from the alcoholic solution by neutral acetate .
If , however , a solution of the two substances in water contains also earthy and alkaline bases , the glucose .
like body tends to combine with these to the exclusion of the extractive matter , and on now evaporating and treating the residue with alcohol , provided a sufficient quantity of bases is present , the alcohol takes up only extractive'matter ; but if they are deficient , the solution in alcohol will contain both .
On the other hand , the compounds of the extractive matter with bases are less soluble in alcohol than those of the glucose ; so that , on adding alcohol to a watery solution containing compounds of both bodies , the precipitate frequently consists of a compound of extractive matter only , without glucose . ?
ith a knowledge of these facts , it is easy to explain why in my experiments I obtained sometimes pure extractive matter , sometimes glucose only , and occasionally a mixture of both , without any great difference in the physical properties of the products being observed .
That the glucose-like body so often accompanying the extractive matters has a composition similar to that of grape-sugar , and other substances of the same class , was proved by the analysis of its lead compound , the results of which were given in the first part of this memoir .
A specimen of extractive matter , insoluble in alcohol , obtained by evaporating a portion of the liquid from which the lead compound of Analysis IV .
Series F , was precipitated with acetate of lead and alcohol , and which had been kept for several years in my collection of products from urine , gave on examination similar results .
It was a dark brown , shining , 1867 .
] 129 amorphous substance , transparent in thin layers , brittle when quite dry , but becoming soft and viscid on exposure to the air .
Its taste was acid , followed by a bitter after-taste .
When heated it swelled up , gave off much gas , and left a bulky charcoal , which was easily reduced to a white ash .
A determination of the quantity of ash yielded the following results:0-5005 grn. dried in the water-bath left 0-0120 grin .
ash=2*39 per cent. The ash was non-alkaline , entirely insoluble in water , but soluble in hydrochloric acid , and consisted of alumina with traces of oxide of iron and lime .
The substance was completely insoluble in boiling absolute alcohol ; but on adding a little concentrated sulphuric acid , the liquid acquired a deep yellow colour , and nearly the whole of the substance dissolved gradually , though not so easily as in the preceding case .
The alcoholic solution , on being mixed with several times its volumie of ether , separated into two layers , the lower one being of a deep yellow colour , and containing apparently the whole of the extractive matter , while the supernatant ethereal liquid was almost colourless .
The watery solution , when tried in the usual manner , was found to contain no trace of glucose .
In this case , therefore , the substance consisted of extractive matter only , in combination with alumina .
A very small amount of the latter is suticient , as it appears , to produce with the extractive matter a compound insoluble in alcohol .
Some of the cream-coloured lead compound , which had served for Analysis III .
Series G , and which had been prepared from a substance insoluble in alcohol , was treated with a mixture of alcohol and sulphuric acid .
The liquid , on being left to stand in contact with the compound , gradually acquired a bright yellow colour like that of a solution of extractive matter , while the resulting sulphate of lead appeared almost white .
These experiments lead to the conclusion that there exists no urinary extractive matter insolubble in alcohol , and that whuat has hitherto been so called consists generally of a compound of the extractive matter soluble in alcohol , with some base or with several bases mixed occasionally with similar compounds of the glucose , which so often accompanies this extractive matter , and is probably one of its products of decomposition .
Though the extractive matter soluble in ether formis , with bases , compounds insoluble in alcohol , I have never found this substance to be a constituent of the product insoluble in alcohol when prepared in the manner above described .
I shall now proceed to give my views of the composition of the uncombined urinary extractive matters , as deduced from the analytical determinations contained in the first part of this paper .
For the extractive matter soluble in alcohol and ether whei in its highest state of purity I have adopted the formulla C( , jT 520 .
The Analyses III .
Series A , I. Series F , I. Series G , and I. Seriecs I gave numbers agreeing toler ably well with this olrmd ula , as the foiioring Table , in which the resiults are placed toget-her for the sake of a more 130 easy comparison with one another , and the theoretical composition , will show* ; A. III .
P.I. G. .
L. I. Calculation .
2 .
1 .
1 , 2 , 3 .
2 .
MVean .
C8. .
516 5 175 51-04 50-65 51-88 51-37 51-23 -1. .
51 5-11 5-43 5'67 5-25 5-16 5-38 N. .
14 1-40 1-34 1-22 1-27 1P20 1-26 ?
O52 .
416 41'74 42'19 42.46 4160 42-27 42-13 997 100-00 100-00 10000 0000 100-00 100-00 I do not insist very strongly on the correctness of this formula ; since , for a body the atomic weight of which is so high , and was determined solely by the amount of nitrogen contained in it , other formulms might be calculated agreeing equally well with the results of analysis .
I have adopted this one in preference , because a simple relation is thereby established between the composition of this extractive matter and that of the other , as I shall presently show .
It will , however , hardly be doubted that the composition of this substance is , under all circumstances , the same , seeing that the material employed for its preparation in these experiments was derived from various sources , at wide intervals of time , and that it was obtained on one occasion from the precipitate with neutral acetate of lead , on other occasions from that with basic acetate of lead , or from all the three lead precipitates combined .
The second analysis corresponds more closelywith the formulaC8 , ,IgTNO than with the one just given , as I have before remarked .
This proves that the substance has a tendency to take up the elements of water , a tendency still further developed in the case of the specimen employed for the Analysis V. Series F , which led to the formula C , , H5 NO , , .
In order to avoid circumlocution I shall for the future call this substance urian .
The extractive matter soluble in alcohol but insoluble in ether was in my opinion obtained only on one occasion free from all admixture , and in the state in which I suppose it to exist originally in the urine .
On this occasion its composition corresponded with the formula C3 H,72 NO,2 , as proved by the results of Analysis III .
Series F , which were as follows : F. III .
Calculation. .
38 ... ... .
228 46-24 46'44 H:27 ... ... ... .
27 5-47 5-66 N ... ... .
14 2-83 3-16 0,2 ... ... ... ... 224 45-46 44-74 493 100'0 100 00 In my earlier experiments , before I had commenced to employ ether without alcohol for the separation of the two extractive matters , I occasionally obtained mixtures of equal quantities of the two bodies , as proved by several analyses of lead compounds , the results of which have been given .
For instance , Analyses I. Series A , and I. Series D , conducted to the formula CG2 H39 N00o .
By doubling this formula , its relation to the two other formula will be seen at once , since 2(C62 H3 , NO,0 ) = C8 , I NO1 , + 038 , 27 NO2 , .
The Analysis I. Series B , which was made with .
a similar mixture , led to the formula C6 , IHT NO37 , which only differs from the preceding by three equivalents of water , from which it is to be inferred that in this case also both extractive matters were present , and that neither preponderated over the other .
These analyses , therefore , though valueless in themselves , serve to confirm the two formulae given for the extractive matters .
The extractive matter soluble in alcohol but insoluble in ether I propose to name urianine .
The relation in which it may possibly stand to urian is shown by the equation C , , 011 NO02+24 HO=C , H , , NO +4 ( C,0 -,2 02 , ) , which proves that urian after absorbing water may split up into urianine and glucose ; and though this is a process which I have not hitherto actually observed , still it is one which may be assumed to take place within the body .
The later analyses of the lead compounds of this substance corresponded with the formula C31 H-2 NO32 , as will be seen from the following Table , in which the results are placed in juxtaposition with one another and with the theoretical composition : Callation .
F. VI .
G. II .
H. IT .
IT .
TII .
Calculation .
l3 .
1 , 2 , 3 .
2 .
2 .
Mean .
C38. .
228 43-42 43-28 43'59 43-90 43-33 43-52 H27. .
27 5 12 5-69 5-37 5'15 5'22 5-37 N. .
14 2-66 2-68 2 '34 2-04 2-52 2-39 03,. .
256 4880 48-35 48-70 14891 48'93 48-72 525 1000)0 100e00 1000o0 100-00 100-00 100'0( The difference in composition to which the two forminlle point is , in my opinion , to be attributed not to any errors of armalysis , nor to any variation in the quality of the urine employed on different occasions , but rather to a difference in the mode of preparation .
In the later series of experiments artificial heat was employed in the evaporation of the solutions instead of the current of cold air made use of for the same purpose at the commencement of the investigation .
I am inclined to think that , in consequence of the elevation of temperature , slight as it was , the substance took up four equivalents of oxygen ; and though there was no apparent difference in the physical properties of the original and the oxidized substance , still they cannot be considered as identical .
If a distinct name is to be bestowed on the latter , I would suggest oxurianine as the most appropriate .
There are indications of the presence of this substance in the earlier experiments also .
For instance , Analysis II .
Series E gave a composition not differing very widely from that to which the later determinations conducted .
The Analyses IX .
Series A and I. Series C gave numbers corresponding with the formula C.8 H71 NO , , which seems to indicate that the substance analyzed was a mixture of oxurianine and glucose , since C8 I7 NO7-=C3,8 1,27 N,32+4 ( C,12 1H 011 ) .
This supposition was confirmed by an examination of the lead compound of the analysis last named , a portion of which still remained .
On treating some of this compound , which was of a pale cream-colour , with dilute sulphuric acid , I obtained a yellow solution which was filtered from the sulphate of lead .
A portion of this solution , on being mixed with more acid and heated , became darker , and deposited a quantity of brown flocks , which is an indication of the presence of urianine or of oxurianine .
Another portion became , on the addition of sulphate of copper and an excess of caustic alkali , of a deep blue colour , and on being boiled deposited an abundance of suboxide of copper .
The Analysis IV .
Series A , which led to the formula C , O H9 , , NO44 , likewise represents a mixture of oxurianine and glucose , 1 equivalent of each having been present in this case .
The analyses of the lead compounds prepared from the so-called extractive matter , insoluble in alcohol , support the view which I take of its nature , viz. that it consists in most cases of a compound of the extractive matter soluble in alcohol with bases , since these analyses gave for the substance , combined with oxide of lead , numbers corresponding with the formula Ca8 1H1 NO3 , as will be seen on glancing over the results , which are here subjoined : Calculai .
D. II .
IP .
IV. .
II. .
IV .
Calculation .
2 .
2 .
1,2 , 3 .
2 .
Mean .
C38 .
228 41-99 41-79 42-11 41-60 41-66 41-79 129. .
29 5-34 5'81 5.51 5-55 5-68 5-64 N. .
14 257 2 ?
57 27 66 240 3-88 2-87 03 .
, .
272 50 10 49583 49 72 50-45 48-78 49'70 543 100-00 100-00 100-00 100-00 100-00 100-00 The tendency to absorb water on the part of these substances , which I have pointed out in the case of urian , shows itself here also .
Seeing that the body having a composition corresponding to the formula CY38 I N03L was always obtained from compounds of extractive matter with bases , it is probable that its formation from the one having the formula C38 H2 NOll is due to the action of bases , an action which so often leads to the absorption of water by organic bodies .
1867 .
] 133 In the preceding review several of the determinations given in Part I. have not been referred to .
They are as follows : Series A , Analyses II .
, V. , VI .
, VII .
, VIII .
E L , I I. , III .
, IV .
F , , , II .
, VII .
Of these A. II .
and A. VI .
gave numbers corresponding very well with the formula C , , H , NO t , , which may be considered to represent a mixture of what may be called the hydrates of urian and urianine , since 2 ( C,2 114H N O7 ) =C86 H13 NOlo + C38 1133 NO4 , .
A hydrate having the formula C , , H1 , NO0o was once isolated , and its lead compound was submitted to analysis ( F. V. ) ; but the other was not obtained in my experiments , though Analysis V. Series A gave results agreeing with the formula C3s H.2 NO29 , which represents a compound of urianine and water .
The substance with which Analysis VII .
Series A was made was probably a mixture of oxurianine and glucose , examples of which occurred frequently in the course of my experiments , as I have before explained .
The Analyses I. Series E and II .
Series F are the only determinations of importance which admit of no explanation , unless it be assumed that considerable errors were committed in making them .
I maintain , then , that , with the exceptions just named , the numerical results obtained in my examination of the composition of these bodies may be explained by adopting the views which I have set forth , views which , I venture to say , have at least the merit of simplicity to recommend them .
Whether they are correct or not I should , however , despair of arriving any nearer the truth by still further multiplying experiments of the kind I have described , and I therefore have brought this portion of the investigation to a close .
The striking analogy subsisting between the extractive matters of urine and the series of bodies of which indican forms the first member is a point of some interest , to which I shall have again occasion to refer .
The relation in which urian and urianine stand to one another is , in my opinion , similar to the one which has been found to exist between indican and indicanine .
Then , again , both urianine and indicanine take up oxygen , and are converted into oxurianine and oxindicanine , bodies which , in their physical properties , resemble those from which they are derived .
It is indeed not impossible that oxindiicanine may be actually converted by a very simple process into oxurianine , as will be evident from the following equation : Oxindicanine .
Oxurianine .
C0 , H N032 +4 HO=C38 -2 N03 2 CO2 .
Processes such as the one represented by this equation are constantly going on in the body , and it is therefore quite possible that the indican originally existing in the blood or tissues may be decomposed , and appear in the urine as ordinary extractive matter .
Indeed the same process may take place in the urine itself as a result of fermentation and oxidation , which may serve to explain the fact of the existence of indican in urine having so frequently been overlooked .
From the experiments hitherto described , I am justified , I think , in drawing the following conclusions:1 .
Human urine contains , under all circumstances , two distinct and peculiar extractive matters , one of which is soluble in alcohol and ether , while the other is soluble in alcohol but insoluble in ether .
2 .
The composition of these bodies is almost always the same , the slight variations which are found to occur being due , not to any difference in the quality or source of the urine employed at various times , but rather to the decomposition which takes place during the process of preparation , and which cannot be entirely avoided .
3 .
Both substances contain nitrogen as an essential constituent , but in so small a proportion as to show that their atomic weight must be very high .
4 .
Both substances have a tendency to take up water , especially when their aqueous solutions are heated or mixed with strong acids .
5 .
The extractive matter insoluble in ether takes up a certain proportion of oxygen , and is converted into a product , which does not differ in its appearance or its most obvious physical properties from the original substance .
6 .
There exists no urinary extractive matter insoluble in alcohol , the substance hitherto so called consisting in most cases of compounds of one of the true extractive matters with various bases .

