III .
" On a Crystalline Fatty Acid from Human Urine .
" By EDWARD SCHUNCK , F.R.S. Received September 21 , 1866* .
The occurrence of fatty matter in urine is a somewhat rare phenomenon , and is generally considered as a symptom of disease , or at least of an abnormal state of the system .
In most cases it is found associated with albumen , forming the so-called " chylous urine , " in which the fatty matter is suspended in such extremely minute particles as to give the liquid the appearance of milk .
In a few instances it has occurred in the shape of fluid oil-globules floating about in the urine ; but it is more frequently found enclosed in cells , which sink and form a deposit at the bottom of the vessel .
Fatty matter is a constituent of ciesteine , the pellicle which is sometimes formed on the surface of the urine of pregnant women ; and a fat resembling butter was obtained from it by Lehmann , though by some authors the very existence of kiesteine as a peculiar deposit is doubted .
Lastly , a few cases are described in which a fat-like substance was passed with the urine in the form of small concretions , which , when fresh , were soft and elastic , but dried into hard , yellow , wax-like masses ( Heller 's Ri:ead November 15 , 1866 : sec Abstract , vol. xv .
p. 258 .
1867 .
] 135 urostealith ) .
In no recorded instance was the fatty matter contained in the secretion in a state of true solution .
The accounts which are given of the physical and chemical properties of the fatty matters of urine are extremely vague , and quite insufficient to enable us to identify them , so that it may be concluded that in most cases the quantity obtained was extremely small .
Dr. Beale has , indeed , shown that the fatty matter which accumulates in the epithelial cells , passed with the urine in some cases of fatty degeneration of the kidney , contains cholesterine ; and Berzelius and Lehmann state that urine , when distilled with the addition of sulphuric acid , yields butyric acid ; but in other respects our ignorance is almost complete .
None of the works devoted to the subject of urine contain a hint which would lead one to suppose that fatty matter in any form is a constituent of the ordinary healthy secretion .
These few words will probably suffice to give an idea of the present state of our knowledge on this subject from a chemical point of view .
The discovery of which I am about to give an account was a result of the examination of the colouring and extractive matters of urine with which I have been occupied for some time , and which forms the subject of several Papers already communicated to the Royal Society .
In the course of my experiments , I observed on several occasions , mixed with the urinary extractive matters , drops of a brown or yellow oil , the appearance of which I could not account for , since it was difficult to conceive how fat of any kind could be deposited from watery solutions of these extractive matters , which generally have an acid reaction ; unless , indeed , it was assumed either that it was a product of decomposition , or that the extractive matters possess the property of effecting the solution or suspension of fatty matter in water .
On one occasion there was deposited during the evaporation of a watery solution of urian ( the extractive matter soluble in ether ) a quantity of fatty acid , from which I prepared a baryta-salt soluble in boiling alcohol , and crystallizing from this solution in small scales .
Traces of a fat-like substance were almost always obtained on treating watery solutions of the extractive matters with animal charcoal , filtering , treating the charcoal with boiling alcohol , and evaporating the alcoholic liquid .
Animal charcoal also effected the separation of a small quantity of fatty matter from urine itself , and this circumstance led me to devise a plan for procuring a quantity sufficiently large to enable me to determine its chief properties .
This method I shall now proceed to describe .
Ordinary healthy urine , having been filtered so as to separate all insoluble matter , is passed in successive portions through purified animal charcoal contained in a common percolating apparatus .
The percolating liquid appears quite colourless , and devoid of the usual odour of urine .
A large quantity of urine may thus be passed with the same effect through a small quantity of charcoal ; but at last there arrives a point at which the charcoal , though apparently retaining its decolorizing and deodorizing power undiminished , suffers the liquid to pass through with extreme slowness 136 only , and the latter , after having percolated , appears rather milky , from a small quantity of white matter suspended in it .
At this point it is advisable to discontinue the percolation of urine and to commence washing the charcoal with water .
This is continued until every trace of chlorides and phosphates is removed , and the charcoal is then laid to dry , either in the air or at a moderate temperature in a stove .
When dry the charcoal is treated with boiling alcohol , to which it communicates a bright yellow colour like that of urine itself , the liquid is filtered , and the process is repeated until the alcohol acquires only a faint yellow colour .
To arrive at a point at which it would appear quite colourless seemed to me almost impossible .
The whole of the alcoholic liquid , which in any case is considerable in quantity , is now evaporated either spontaneously or at a moderate temperature .
The brown syrupy residue which is left on evaporation is mixed with water , which leaves undissolved a quantity of dark-brown semifluid fatty matter to be separated by filtration .
The liquid , which has a yellow colour , contains in solution a crystallized organic substance , the occurrence of which in urine has not hitherto been observed .
It also contains , provided the evaporation of the alcoholic liquid was conducted spontaneously , a quantity of indican ; for on the addition of sulphuric or hydrochloric acid , it deposits flocks of indigo-blue-a reaction which , however , ceases to be produced after the solution has stood for some time in a warm place .
Its colour is mainly due to the ordinary extractive matters of urine which it contains .
The fatty matter which is left undissolved by the water has a dark-brown colour and a strongly urinous odour .
In order to purify it , it is dissolved in alcohol , and the filtered liquid is evaporated .
The residual fatty mass is pressed between blotting-paper , in order to absorb as much as possible the more fluid portion , and it is then redissolved in alcohol .
The alcoholic solution is agitated with a little animal charcoal , which deprives it of some of its colour , then filtered and evaporated , when it leaves a brownish-yellow residue , which still retains some of the odour just referred to .
By treating it with very dilute spirits this odour , as well as the yellow colour , which seem to belong to the same body , are removed , and an almost white solid fat is left undissolved'* .
This may be still further purified by dissolving it in a boiling solution of carbonate of potash .
The soap , which separates on cooling , is filtered off , washed with a solution of carbonate of potash , and decomposed with acid .
The fatty acid which separates is now quite colourless .
After being washed it is dissolved in alcohol .
On spontaneous evaporation the solution leaves a perfectly white crystalline residue consisting of the acid in a state of purity .
As thus prepared , the substance has all the properties characteristic of the group of fatty acids to which palmitic and stearic acid belong .
It is white , has a pearly lustre and a crystalline appearance , and when viewed under the microscope is seen to consist of small star-shaped masses .
From a solution in boiling dilute spirits it is deposited , on the solution cooling , in shining scales .
The alcoholic solution reddens litmus-paper slightly ; it floats on the surface of water , which it repels like all other fats .
WJhen the water is heated , it melts into oily drops , which on cooling become solid and crystalline .
Its melting-point , as determined with an apparently pure specimen , is 54 ?
'3 C. When impure , i. e. contaminated with the body which imparts the brownish-yellow colour to the crude product , it fuses at a lower temperature .
A specimen only slightly coloured melted at 52 ?
'8 C. , another at 49 ?
'5 C. When heated between two watch-glasses , the acid fuses and is then volatilized , leaving only a trace of residue , while there is formed on the upper glass an oily sublimate , which on cooling becomes solid and glassy .
This sublimate dissolves easily in alcohol , and the solution leaves on spontaneous evaporation a white crystalline residue consisting of needles arranged in star-shaped or feather-like masses .
The substance dissolves as easily in ether as in alcohol , and the solution leaves on evaporation a white crystalline mass .
It is easily soluble in boiling dilute caustic potash and soda-lye , as well as in aqueous ammonia ; these solutions froth on being boiled like those of ordinary soap .
The solution in potash deposits on cooling a quantity of white pearly scales , which settle slowly to the bottom of the vessel .
The soda compound separates in the form of a thick , white , amorphous soap , a very small quantity of which is sufficient to cause the liquid to gelatinize on cooling .
The amioniacal solution deposits on cooling a quantity of scales , which resemble the potash compound , together with a few crystalline needles .
Boiling solutions of carbonate of potash and carbonate of soda also dissolve the acid readily .
When the residue left by evaporating the solution in carbonate of potash to dryness is treated with boiling absolute alcohol , an alcoholic solution of the potash-soap is obtained , which , after being filtered from the excess of carbonate of potash and spontaneously evaporated , leaves a residue consisting partly of isolated prismatic crystals , partly of star-shaped masses .
The soda compound may in the same manner be obtained in a crystalline state .
The alcoholic solution of either of these compounds gives with acetate of baryta a white crystalline deposit .
A watery solution gives with nitrate of silver a white , curd-like precipitate , which blackens slowly on exposure to the light .
The ammoniacal solution of the acid produces , with the chlorides of barium and calcium , white , fiocculent precipitates , which do not become crystalline on standing .
The alcoholic solution yields with acetate of lead , an abundant white amorphous precipitate .
138 These experiments lead to the conclusion that human urine contains in a state of solution a crystalline fatty acid , having the general properties of the members of this class , which are solid at the ordinary temperature .
The quantity of this substance which I obtained was too inconsiderable to enable me to determine its composition , and the melting-point therefore afforded the only means of ascertaining whether it is identical with any of the known fatty acids or not .
Were it not for the low melting-point there would be nothing to oppose the conclusion that it is palmitic acid , one of the constituents of human fat .
It is , however , a well-known fact that mixtures of two solid fatty acids in certain proportions melt at a lower temperature than the most fusible even of the constituents .
For instance , according to Heintz , a mixture of 30 parts of stearic acid with 70 of palmitic acid fuses at 55 ?
'1 C. , though the melting-point of the former when pure is 70 ?
and of the latter 60 ? .
This urinary acid may therefore be a mixture of this kind and not a peculiar substance-in fact a mixture of the two acids just named , which , according to recent investigations , constitute together what was formerly called margaric acid , the solid acid of buman fat .
Considering how many of the organs and secretions of the human body contain fat , it need not excite surprise that a minute quantity of fatty acid should be found in urine also , in consequence of deficient oxidation or from other causes .
That it forms a normal constituent of the secretion I do not venture to assert , though the urine employed in my experiments in no case exhibited anything , peculiar , and when submitted to the process above described , never failed to yield a little of the fatty acid .
The quantity obtained was always extremely small .
In one experiment , for instance , 45 litres of urine yielded 0 ' 14 grin .
of tolerably pure acid , which , assuming the urine to have been of average composition , would be equal to the 22000th part of its solid constituents .
It is far from certain , however , that this was the total quantity contained in it .
The simple method of separating the substance from the urine which I have described will enable pathologists to determine whether in cases of disease its quantity is sensibly increased .
The question how this fatty acid , which belongs to a class of bodies almost insoluble in water , comes to be dissolved in urine will naturally suggest itself , but it is one to which it is difficult to find a satisfactory reply .
Whether urine is capable of dissolving a small quantity of the acid itself , whether the latter is contained in it in combination with some base , the compound being soluble in water but not decomposable by the weak acids of the urine , or whether , as there seems reason to suspect , the extractive matters promote the solubility of the fatty acid in water , are points on which I express no opinion .
That the animal charcoal , when used in the manner above described , effects not a mere filtration , but an actual separation of some of the constituents of urine , may be considered as quite certain .
L2 1867.1 Fatly Acidfrom Urine .
139

