" On the Colouring and Extractive Matters of Urine.-Part I. " By EDWARD SCHUNCK , F.R.S. Received June 29 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) Notwithstanding the labour bestowed by many eminent men on the chemistry of urine during the last sixty years , there are portions of the subject of which we have but a very imperfect knowledge .
Of all the properties of urine , none is more obvious , even to the ordinary observer , than its colour ; and yet very little is known concerning the chemical nature of the substances to which its colour is due .
Our ignorance in this respect may be ascribed to various causes , among which may be mentioned the extremely minute quantities of these substances occurring in the secretion , the facility with which some of them are decomposed , their chemical and physical properties ( which present to our notice very little that is characteristic ) , and , lastly , the little interest which they possess for the chemist , notwithstanding their importance from a physiological and pathological point of view .
According to the author , the colouring-matters peculiar to urine may be divided into three classes , viz.st .
Those which are only found occasionally in it , in consequence either of disease or of some abnormal state of the system .
2ndly .
Those which are produced by spontaneous decomposition , or by the action of reagents on substances , either coloured or colourless , preexisting in the urine .
3rdly .
The colouring-matter or matters occurring in normal urine , and to which its usual colour is due .
The first class is again subdivided by the author into blue , purple or red , and black or brown colouring-matters .
The appearance of a blue colouring-matter in urine has been frequently observed , both in ancient and modern times .
By some it has been taken for indigo-blue , by others for prussian blue , while several chemists maintain that it consists of a peculiar substance , to which the name of cyanourine has been applied .
The red colouring-matter is generally found in association with deposits of urate of ammonia and urate of soda , to which it communicates a pinlk or carmine tinge .
Proust called it rosacic acid , while recent observers have given it other names , such as uroerythrine and pur purine .
Very little is known regarding its true chemical nature .
Prout , indeed , suggested that it might be identical with purpurate of ammonia ; but he advanced no good grounds in support of this view , and it was proved to be erroneous by Berzelius .
Instances of black urine are even of rarer occurrence than those of urine coloured blue .
Indeed in many cases the black colour appears to have been due to red or purple pigments which communicated to the urine so deep a tint as to make it appear black .
The melanic acid of Prout seems , however , to have been a peculiar substance , though closely resembling , as remarked by Berzelius , the black pulverulent substance which is formed by the action of concentrated acids on the extractive matters of urine .
The second class of urinary colouring-matters , comprising those which are formed by artificial means and therefore do not preexist in the secretion , may also be subdivided according to colour-those which have hitherto been observed being either blue , red , or brown .
The author concedes to I-eller the merit of having first obtained from urine by artificial means colouring-matters of a pure blue or red tint ; but the true nature of these colouring-matters , as well as of the process by which they are formed , was not understood by him .
Subsequent researches have proved that the uroglaucine and urorhodine of Heller are identical with the indigo-blue and indigo-red obtained from vegetables .
After mentioning the experiments of Hassall , who observed the formation in morbid urine of a blue colouring-matter which he showed to be indigo-blue , the author refers to his own researches .
In a paper published several years ago , he showed that urine contained as a never-failing constituent a body closely resembling if not identical with indican , the indigo-producing body of vegetables , and that hence the formation of indigo-blue and indigo-red from urine might easily be explained .
This result has been confirmed by Carter and others .
The formation of brown colouring-matters by the action of acids on urine was first observed by Proust , who obtained by this means a brown resinous body and a black pulverulent substance .
The same or similar bodies were obtained by Scharling and Liebig , as well as the author , who gave a general account of them in the memoir just referred to .
The simultaneous formation of glucose , or at least of a body having the same action on oxide of copper as glucose , is a fact first observed by the author .
From an exa mination of the composition of the brown pulverulent substance resulting from the action of strong acids on urine , the author infers that it may be expressed by the formula C1 H17 NO , which is also that of anthranilic acid , a product of decomposition of indigo-blue .
All these products ( the resin , the brown pulverulent substance which has received the name of uromelanine , and the glucose ) are , in the author 's opinion , derived from the extractive matter of urine , which by decomposition with acids yields these and perhaps other products .
The conclusion formerly arrived at by the author , viz. " that the indigo-producing body will be found , as regards its formation and composition , to occupy a place between the substance of the tissues and the ordinary extractive matter of urine , " is one which further research , as the author thinks , has only tended to confirm .
The urinary colouring-matters belonging to the third class , consisting of those to which the ordinary colour of the secretion is due , have been less frequently submitted to investigation than those which make their appearance only exceptionally or in consequence of some artificial process of decomposition .
This circumstance may easily be accounted for .
These so-called colouring-matters are all amorphous , and possess few characteristic properties ; hence their separation from the other constituents of urine is attended with great difficulties , and has even been pronounced impossible .
They are also compounds of very little stability--so much so that mere evaporation of the urine seems to produce a complete change in their composition , as is seen by the marked change of colour which takes place during the process .
The opinions entertained on the subject by the earlier chemists , such as Fourcroy and Vauquelin and Proust , having been referred to , the author gives a short account of the experiments of Berzelius , Duvernoy , Lehmann , Scherer , HIarley , Tichborne , and Thudichum .
Berzelius and Lehmann both found the substance to which healthy urine owes its colour to be completely soluble in water .
Subsequently , however , most of the attempts which were made to isolate the colouring-matter of urine ended in the separation of substances quite insoluble in water .
These must in all cases have been products of decomrposition ; for the author considers it quite certain that the colouring-matters derived from urine which are insoluble in water are not contained as such in the secretion , provided the latter is in its normally acid state .
Having concluded his summary of the results obtained in previous researches , the author proceeds to give an account of his own experiments .
Before doing so , he states that he shall apply the term " colouring-matter " to those bodies only which , occurring naturally in urine or else formed by processes of decomposition , are insoluble or not easily soluble in water , while the substances easily soluble in water to which the colour of normal urine is due , he shall continue for the present to call " extractive matters .
" The extractive matters being , in the author 's opinion , the source whence most of the colouring-matters of urine are derived , he resolved to comrnence the investigation by a careful examination of their properties and 2 s composition .
Indeed the first step which he thought it necessary to take , before proceeding with the investigation at all , was to ascertain whether these extractive matters are bodies of a definite chemical nature , or whether they are merely accidental mixtures of various excrementitious substances thrown out by the system , and differing in their nature according to circumstances .
In order to arrive at a positive conclusion on this point , several series of experiments were undertaken .
The method devised for the purpose of separating the extractive matters from the other constituents of urine , and obtaining them in a state of purity , presents few features of novelty as compared with those previously employed .
The experiments necessarily occupied a considerable time , since the author considered it essential , in order to avoid decomposition , to evaporate all the solutions at the ordinary temperature by means of a current of air .
The certainty of the conclusions arrived at afforded , however , ample compensation for the loss of time and additional labour thus occasioned .
The composition of the extractive matters was determined by analyzing their lead compounds , since the substances themselves cannot be obtained in a state fit for analysis .
From the experiments described in this part of his paper the author thinks he is justified in drawing the following conclusions:1 .
Human urine contains at least two peculiar and distinct extractive matters , one of which is soluble in alcohol and ether , while the other is soluble in alcohol , but insoluble in ether .
The existence of an extractive matter insoluble both in alcohol and in ether is extremely doubtful .
2 .
The composition of these extractive matters varies slightly , without any corresponding difference in their appearance and properties being perceptible ; but these variations are not due to any difference in the quality of the urine or the source whence it was derived , but rather to the decomposition which takes place during the process employed in their preparation , and which cannot be entirely avoided .
3 .
When quite pure , the extractive matter soluble in alcohol and ether has a composition corresponding with the formula C86 H5 NO52 , , , while that of the extractive matter soluble in alcohol but insoluble in ether is expressed by the formula C3 H27 NO28 .

