February 13 , 1851 .
SIR BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled , " On Rubian and its Products of Decomposition .
" By Edward Schunck , Esq. , F.R.S. Received January 9 , 1851 .
After adverting to the obscurity in which the inquiry concerning the state in which the colouring matter of Madder originally exists in this root is involved , the author refers to the change which takes place in the root , especially if in a state of powder , during the lapse of time , and to the little light which has been thrown by chemical investigations on the nature of the process by which the change is effected .
He states that it has been suspected by several chemists that there exists originally some substance in madder , which , by the action of fermentation , or oxidation , is decomposed , and gives rise by its decomposition to the various substances endowed either with a red or yellow colour , which have been discovered during the chemical investigations of this root .
In his papers on the colouring matter of madder , he has described four substances derived from madder , only one of which is a true colouring matter , but all of them capable under certain circumstances , as for instance in combination with alkalies , of developing red or purple colours of various intensity .
After referring to the opinions of M. Persoz and the investigations of Mr. Higgin relative to xanthine and alizarine , the author observes that , by adding a variety of substances to an extract of madder with cold water , he was enabled to ascertain under what circumstances and by what means the tinctorial power of the liquid is destroyed , and consequently what is the general character of the substance or substances to which it is due .
He found that by adding sulphuric , or muriatic acid to the extract , and heating , the liquid , after neutralization of the acid , was no longer capable of dyeing .
The tinctorial power was also destroyed by the addition of hydrate of alumina , magnesia , protoxide of tin , and various metallic oxides , but not by carbonate of lime , or carbonate of lead .
In all cases in which the property of dyeing in the extract was destroyed , he invariably found that its bitter taste and bright yellow colour were destroyed .
Having shown , in his former papers on this subject , that the intensely bitter taste of madder and its extracts is due to a peculiar substance to which he has given the name of rubian ; and as it appeared from these preliminary experiments that this substance , though itself no colouring matter , is in some way concerned in the changes whereby a formation of colouring matter is induced in aqueous extracts of madder , he proposed to himiself to examine its properties and products of decomposition more in detail than he had hitherto done .
After numerous experiments , undertaken with the view of obtaining pure rubian in quantities sufficiently large for the purposes of examination , he discovered a property of that substance , by which he was enabled to obtain it in a state of purity , namely the remarkable attraction manifested by it towards all substances of a porous or finely-divided nature , which is perhaps more characteristic of it than any other .
The method he finally adopted , and which , he states , surpasses all others in facility and certainty of execution , is fully detailed .
Rubian , when prepared according to this method , is a hard , dry , brittle , shining , perfectly uncrysta !
line substance , similar to glum or dried varnish .
It is not in the least deliquescent , as xanthine is described to be .
In thin layers it is perfectly transparent , and of a beautiful dark yellow colour ; in large masses it appears dark brown .
It is very soluble in wrate ad in alcohol , more so in the former than in the latter ; but insoluble in rether , which precipitates it in brown drops from its alcoholic solution .
Its solutions have an in tensely bitter taste .
When it is pure , its solution in water gives no precipitates with the mineral or organic acids , nor with salts of the alkalies or alkaline earths .
Basic acetate of lead , however , gives a copious light red precipitate in a solution of ' pure rubian , the solution becoming colourless ; but this is the only definite compound of rubian with which the author is acquainted .
He states that rubian cannot be considered as a colouring matter in the ordinary sense of the word .
It is decomposed by acids , alkalies , chlorine , heat and ferments .
The formula for rubian appears to be C56 1-34 030 .
The action of sulphuric and of muriatic acid on rubian is stated to be precisely the same .
The products of the decomposition by those acids are , --st , Alizarine ; 2nd , the substance which the author formerly termed Beta-resin , but which he now calls Verantine ; 3rd , the substance which the author in former papers has called Alpharesin ; but to which he now prefers giving the name of Ruibiretine ; 4th , a body which has not hitherto been observed , and which he denominates Rubianine ; and 5th , a sugar obtained from the acid liquid after the complete decomposition of the rubian .
1 .
The alizarine obtained from the decomposition of rubian exhibits all the usual properties of this well-known substance .
Its colour is dark yellow , without any tinge of brown or red .
The crystals possess a lustre which the author has never seen equalled in this substance .
The analysis gave the formula C'4 H5 O4 .
Thus by simply losing 14 equivs. of water , I equiv. of rubian is converted into 4 equivs. of alizarine .
2 .
Verantine , in most of its properties , coincides with the substance to which the author formerly gave the name of Beta .
resin of madder .
When prepared according to the method described in the paper , it is obtained in the form of a reddish-brown powder .
When heated on platinum foil , it melts , and then burns away without leaving any residue .
It dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid , with a brown colour , and is reprecipitated by water in brown flocks .
On heating the solution in concentrated sulphuric acid , it becomes black , sulphurous acid is disengaged , and the substance is decomposed .
Concentrated nitric acid dissolves it on boiling , with a disengagement of nitrous acid , forming a yellow liquid , from which nothing separates on cooling .
It is almost insoluble in boiling water , but readily soluble in boiling alcohol , and is again deposited , on the alcohol cooling , as a brown powder , which is its most characteristic property .
From an experiment described in the paper , the author is inclined to conclude that alizarine and verantine are capable of forming a double compound with alumina soluble in boiling water , and that a mixture of the two in the proportion in which they exist in this compound constitutes what has been called purpurine .
Although the difficulty of obtaining pure verantine in sufficient quantity for the purposes of analysis prevented the author from determining its composition with the requisite accuracy , he obtained approximations sufficiently near to remove almost all doubts on the question .
The formula deduced firo four experiments is C14 H5 05 ; so that it appears that verantine differs from alizarine by containing 1 equiv. more of oxygen .
3 .
Rubiretine is identical with the substance which the author formerly called Alpha-resin of rmadder .
He endeavoured in vain to determine the atomic weight of this substance ; but states that there is only one formula which is in accordance with his analyses , and at the same time satisfactorily explains its formation .
This formula is C 14 HO4 ; so that 2 equivs. of verantine and 2 equivs. of rubiretine with 12 equivs. of water give 1 equiv. of rubian .
4 .
Rubianine greatly resembles rubiacine in its appearance and many of its properties .
It may however easily be distinguished by several characteristics , and above all by its composition .
It is obtained from a solution in boiling alcohol in the form of bright lemonyellow silky needles , which when dry form an interwoven mass .
It is less soluble in alcohol , but more so in boiling water , than any of the preceding substances .
On the solution in boiling water cooling , it crystallizes out again in yellow silky needles .
Its colour is lighter than that of rubiacine .
When heated on platinum foil , it melts to a brown liquid ; then burns , leaving a carbonaceous residue , which on further heating disappears entirely .
It is soluble in concentrated sulphuric acid , with a yellow colour ; the solution on boiling becomes black , and gives off sulphurous acid .
It is not affected either by dilute or concentrated nitric acid even on boiling ; it merely dissolves in them , and , on the acid cooling , crystallizes out again as from boiling water .
There are three formulae , all of which give for 100 parts of this substance numbers not widely differing from those deduced from the analyses , viz. C2s H17 013 , C3 HI 015 , C44H 24 020 , but the last is that with which they best agree .
5 .
The sugar is always obtained in the form of a transparent yellow syrup , which neither crystallizes , however long its solution may be left to stand , nor becomes dry unless heated to 100 ?
C. There are two formtule , C'4 H14 O14 and CN HE ' O'1 , both of which agree with the analyses of this substance , and explain its formation .
The author states the views to which each of these formula gives rise , and the reasons for adopting the latter .
Although five substances are produced by the action of acids on rubian , the author does not consider that these substances are all formed together , or in other words , that one atom of rubian , by its decomposition , gives rise to all five at the same time ; but that , from the composition of these substances as compared with that of rubian , it follows , that the decomposition affects three separate atoms of rubian .
One of these atoms loses 14 atoms of water , and is converted into alizarine .
The second loses 12 atoms of water , and then splits up into verantine and rubiretine .
The third takes up the elements of water , and then splits up into rubianine and sugar .
Whether it would be possible to confine the decomposition of rubian entirely to one of these processes , or whether all three are essential , he considers is a question of the highest importance , not so much in a theoretical as in a practical point of view ; and that should any chemist succeed in changing rubian entirely into alizarine , he would be the means of giving a great stimulus to many branches of manufacture and adding largely to the national wealth .

