" On some conclusions derived from the Observations of the Magnetic Declination at the Observatory of St. Helena .
" By Colonel EDWARD SABINE , R.A. , V.P.R.S. Received May 18 , 1854 .
The author commences with the following preliminary remarks : " The part taken by the Royal Society in promoting , by its influence with Government , the establishment of the Colonial Magnetic Observatories , and in drawing up instructions for the guidance of those who were employed in them , makes it the duty of the person charged with their superintendence , to spare no pains to place before the Fellows , on suitable occasions , the results of researches designed to obtain a foundation of facts , on which a correct theory of the magnetic variations might be framed , and an insight be gained into the nature of the physical agency by which they are produced .
" In this first stage of scientific inquiry , when we have only the phenomena themselves to guide us in their classification , or to indicate by apparent correspondences the existence of some causal connexion of which we have no other knowledge than that which the observations themselves may afford , the first difficulty to be met consists , in disentangling from the complication in which the mag netic variations proceeding from different causes first present themselves , the effects which may appear to be due to certain amongst them ; and in presenting these in some methodical order or arrangement , which may best assist the physicist or the mathematician in his conception of the problem or problems , to the solution of which he may desire to apply himself .
" The first and most obvious separation of the magnetic variations is into those which are presented at one time at different parts of the earth 's surface , and have special reference therefore to space ; and those which present themselves at different times at one and the same place , and have special reference therefore to time .
It is the object of magnetic surveys to collect the facts of the first , and of magnetic observatories the facts of the second , of these primary divisions .
The present communication belongs to the second , and regards the variations depending upon time at a single station ( St. Helena ) .
" Still , however , the phenomena even at a single station are too complicated for ready comprehension , and stand in need of further subdivision .
This is most satisfactorily effected by the customary separation into three classes , or elements as they are frequently termed , the Declination , the Inclination , and the Intensity of the Directive Force .
The discussion is limited on the present occasion to a single element , the Declination , and to a portion only of the results obtained by the observations of that element at St. Helena .
" After premising a description of the instrument with which the observations were made , and of the mode of observing and of recording the observations , which is omitted here because it may be found in the Introduction to the first volume of the ' St. Helena Magnetical Observations , ' the author proceeds to the conclusions which he desires to notice , and to the manner in which these have been obtained , which we follow , by adopting , as nearly as may be convenient , his own words .
" Before we attempt to examine those periodical variations , or fluctuations about a mean value , which , from their having for periods , for example , the solar year or the solar day , we naturally refer to causes depending in some way upon the earth 's place in its orbit relatively to the sun , or to the earth 's revolution round its axis , it is desirable to examine , and if practicable , to eliminate the effects of a variation which we have reason to believe belongs intrinsically to the magnetism of the earth itself .
The geographical aspect , if we may so express it , of the terrestrial magnetism , or the different measure in which the magnetic force exists at different parts of the earth 's surface , and the different directions which a magnet assumes in different places by virtue of this force , so far from being permanent , are found to be subject to a continual change , which differs from all other magnetic variations with which we are acquainted , inasmuch as it does not present to us the character of an oscillation of the phenomena around a mean value in periods of greater or less duration , but appears , especially when viewed generally in its operation over the whole globe , as a continuously progressive change ; it has for this reason received the appropriate name of 'secular change .
' It is possible indeed that the magnetism of the earth may have its periods , -that the phenomena existing at one and the same epoch over the whole surface of the globe may be identically reproduced at a subsequent epoch , and that what has been called the secular change of each of the magnetic elements , which we perceive to be in progress at any particular point of the surface , St. Helena for example , may be part of a succession of changes which operate in a cycle , of which the duration , vast as it may be , may hereafter be found to be calculable .
But as far as our knowledge has yet gone , it is insufficient to justify the assumption of even approximate periodical laws of this variation of the terrestrial magnetism ; and we must continue to regard it therefore for the present as a secular change , of which the period , if there be one , or the periods , if there be more than one , are as yet unknown .
But although the secular change has no intrinsic relation , as far as we have been able to discover , to any of the periods of time determined by other phenomena , either of our own planet or of any other of the heavenly bodies , it is obvious that we may assign the average rate at which the change is taking place , in any of the magnetic elements and at any particular station ( the declination for example at St. Helena ) , corresponding to any definite measure of time in usage amongst us ( say for example a month , or the twelfth part of a solar year ) , by taking the successive differences between the monthly means of all the hourly observations in the first and second months of their continuance , then between the second and third months , then between the third and fourth , and 1 so on .
By thus proceeding in the case of the Declination at St , Helena , we have sixty differences thus accruing in the five years of hourly observation , by which we find that the monthly increase of West Declination during these five years amounted on the average to 0 ' 657 , or to an annual increase of 7 '88 .
" It is not however necessary for this investigation that the system of observation should be hourly : a much less onerous system is sufficient , provided that the observations be distributed equably through the year , and that the intervals between the observations of each day be , approximately at least , equidistant .
Before the commencement of the hourly series there had been fifteen months of twohourly observations , and after its close the observations were continued for twenty-one months more at five hours of each day , the hours being such as to give by their combination a true mean value for each day .
We are thus enabled to take in a more extended period , amounting to ninety-six consecutive months , or eight years , from which to derive the average rate of secular change at St. Helena .
Proceeding as before , we find for this period an average rate of 0'661 for the increase of West Declination in a month , or an annual increase of 7t'93 in a solar year .
During these eight years the horizontal magnetic direction at St. Helena had consequently changed altogether rather more than one degree .
" When the number of years are few from which an annual average rate of secular change is derived , it is necessary to be particular in regard to the regular distribution of the observations as to months and hours , because observations made at one time of the year or at one hour of the day , are not strictly comparable with those made at other times of the year or at other hours of the day , unless indeed corrections based on a long series of observations at the same spot or in its vicinity are applied for the annual and diurnal variations .
But when the periods of comparison include intervals of considerable length , the comparative influence of the annual and diurnal variations is greatly diminished , and , if the comparison extend over a great number of years , it may practically be disregarded .
Now , St. Helena being a naval station , and frequently visited by navigators of our own and other countries , who have had the requisite knowledge and have been at the pains to take the necessary precautions to make trustworthy observations , we are able to collect from the narratives of their voyages a succession of determinations of the Declination , all made at the same spot , namely , at the one anchorage at St. Helena , which extend over a period of 236 years , or from 1610 to 1846 .
The following Table contains eleven such determinations , all from authorities of high repute , which are fortunately so far equably distributed in respect to the years when they were made , as to throw light not only upon the average amount of the secular change of declination during that long period , but also in a considerable degree upon the regularity , or uniformity with which the change has taken place .
By treating these eleven determinations according to well-known methods , we obtain 11 ? ?
48 ' as the west declination corresponding to the middle epoch , the year 1763 , and 8r'05 as the most probable rate of the annual increase during the 236 years .
Declinations observed at the Anchorage at St. Helena .
1610 .
Davis ... ... ... ... ... ..7 13 Calculated8 44 Obs.-Calcul.+l 31 1677 .
Halley ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 40 , , +0 16 , , -0 56 1691 .
Halley ... ... ... ... ... . .
+1 00 , , +2 08 , , -1 08 1724 .
Mathews ... ... ... ... ... 7 30 , , 6 34 , , +0 56 1775 .
Wales ... ... ... ... ... . .
+12 18 , , +13 25 , , -1 07 1789 .
Hunter ... ... ... ... . .
+15 30 , , +15 18 , +0 12 1796 .
Macdonald ... ... ... ... +15 48 , , 16 14 -0 26 1806 .
Krusenstern ... ... ... ... +17 18 , , +17 34 , -0 16 1839 .
Du Petit-Thouars ... +22 17 , , +22 00 , , +0 17 1840 .
Ross ... ... ... ... ... ... ... +22 53 , +22 08 , , +0 45 1846 .
Berard ... ... ... ... ... . .
+23 11 , , +22 57 , , +0 14 Mean Epoch 1763 Mean Declination + 11 ? ?
48 ' Annual Increase of West Declination 8'05 W &lt; e have here then a striking example of the magnitude and character of the changes wrought at a particular station by this very remarkable feature of the earth 's magnetic force .
In less than two centuries and a half , the horizontal direction which a magnet takes at St. Helena by virtue of the terrestrial magnetic force has been found to have changed more than 30 ?
, or more than a twelfth part of the whole circle : and when we further examine the facts more closely , we find reason to conclude that this great change has taken place by a steady , equable and uniform progression throughout the whole period .
The rate of annual change derived from the eight years during which the observations were maintained by the detachment of the Royal Artillery stationed at the Observatory ( 71'93 ) differs so slightly from that derived from the observations made at the anchorage from the earliest period at which observations are recorded ( i. e. 8t'05 ) , that we may practically regard them as the same .
To examine whether this has been a uniform rate throughout the 236 years , or otherwise , the same calculation which gives 8 ' 05 as the most probable average rate of change between 1610 and 1846 , will give also for each of the years in which the Declination was observed the most probable values of the Declination corresponding to the same rate of change supposed uniform .
These calculated values are placed in the Table opposite to the years to which each belongs , and adjoining the observed values .
The differences are shown in the next column .
On inspecting these , we perceive that not one of the differences exceeds the limits , which , with a due consideration of the irregularities to which magnetic observations made on board ship are liable , may be ascribed to accidents of observation ; and , what is still more important , that they fall indiscriminately to the east and to the west of the values calculated on the supposition of a uniform rate , and without the slightest appearance of any systematic character which might indicate that the rate had been otherwise than regular .
We have reason to conclude , therefore , that , from the earliest date to which we can refer , the progression of secular change at St. Helena has gone on from year to year , as nearly as may be , in one uniform annual rate .
" The instruction to be derived from the St. Helena observations does not however stop here .
By a suitable arrangement of the observations of the eight years , they may be made to show that , when allowance is made for comparatively very small irregularities superimposed upon the regular march of the phenomenon by disturbing causes which will be treated of in the sequel , the average annual change takes place by equal aliquot portions in each month of the year .
The eight years of observation commenced with June 1841 : if we take a mean of the eight monthly means in the eight Junes from 1841 to 1848 , we shall have a better assured mean value of the Declination corresponding to the month of June , than if we had confined ourselves to a single year .
If we then do the same with the eight Julys , and with each of the other months in succession , we shall have twelve monthly values for a year commencing with June and ending with May , which will represent in a simple and condensed form the means of the whole eight years .
These are exhibited in the next table , and we perceive at the first view that the increase of west declination is progressive in each month of the year without a single exception .
If we desire to examine further the degree of approximation which these values present to a progression absolutely uniform , we may apply an aliquot portion of the annual value ( 71'93 ) to each of the monthly means corresponding to the difference in time from the mean epoch ( December 1 ) .
These aliMean Correction Months .
Declinafor secular Mean DeclinaDifferences |Months .
etion .
change to tion in the year .
( ''/ ) .
Dec. 1 .
June ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 2342 +3-64 23 27-06-= ' +622 July ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .23 24-45 +2-97 23 27-42=- ' -0-14 August ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .23 24-91 +2-31 23 27-22 = ' +006 September ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 25-30 +1-65 23 26-95== ' +033 October ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2632 i 099 23 27-31=t ' -0-03 November ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..23 2707 +033 23 27-40= : ' -0-12 December ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 27'73 -0-33 23 27-40 =t 012 January ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
23 2829 -099 23 2730= -002 February ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 29-23 -1-65 23 27-58= 4 ' -0-30 March ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
23 29-76 -2-31 23 27-45=- ' -0-17 April ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 3021 -2-97 23 27-24= ' +0-04 May ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
23 3069 -64 23 2705 = +023 Mean , corresponding to Dec. 123 27-28 23 27-28= t quot portions are shown in the second column , and it will be seen by the third column , containing the mean declinations of the year deduced severally from the observation-values in the different months , with the correction for secular change assumed uniform applied , how very nearly the results derived from the several months approximate to one and the same value .
The small differences which are shown in the last column are for the most part such as would probably disappear by a longer continuance of the observations ; but we may notice , by the character of the signs , that there is also visible amongst them the indication of a comparatively very small semi-annual affection , depending on the sun 's position on either side of the equator , which will be reverted to when treating of superimposed effects .
" The same features of regularity and uniformity are manifested if the examination be further pursued into shorter periods , by comparing with each other the twenty-six fortnightly means in the year ; but enough has been already stated to show the magnitude , the regularity , and the systematic character of the changes called secular , which are thus produced by forces in constant operation at the surface of our planet .
In our entire inability to connect these changes with any other of the phenomena of nature , either cosmical or terrestrial , we appear to , have no other alternative than to view them as a constituent feature of the terrestrial magnetic force itself , and as one of its most remarkable characteristics , not to be overlooked by those who would seek to explain the phenomena of that force by means of a physical theory .
The attempts which have sometimes been made to explain them by a supposed connection of the terrestrial magnetic phenomena with the distribution of land and sea at the surface of the globe , or with the distribution of heat on that surface , or by electrical currents excited by the rotation of the earth on its axis , contain no provision to meet a systematic variation of this nature ; and break down altogether when the facts of the secular change are duly apprehended .
From the phenomena of a single element at a single station , as here presented , we may assure ourselves that effects proceeding with so much order and regularity , which we cannot ascribe to any other cause than that of the terrestrial magnetism itself , and cannot therefore separate from its other manifestations , must find a place in any physical theory which professes to explain the phenomena of the earth 's magnetism .
To learn the changes in this and in the other magnetic elements which are simultaneously in progress in other parts of the globe , and to apprehend their mutual connexion and the general system of secular change which they indicate , it is necessary that the facts should be collected in the same manner as at St. Helena , at a great number of stations distributed over the earth 's surface , and that they should be studied both separately and together .
This may indeed appear a work of labour ; but it is the most certain , if not the only certain mode of arriving at a correct knowledge of phenomenal laws , when the laws of their causation are wholly unknown .
In this , as in similar studies , however complex the phenomena may appear at the first aspect , and it is fully admitted that those of the secular magnetic change do appear extremely complex at the first view , the mind soon begins to recognize order amidst apparent irregularity , and system amidst incessant variation .
The order and regularity with which we are impressed at a single station are soon perceived to characterize , in an equally remarkable manner , a general systematic change taking place connectedly over the whole surface of the globe , and which can everywhere be traced to have been continuously in operation since the earliest epoch of magnetic observation .
To those who find pleasure in tracing phenomena of great apparent complexity to laws of comparative simplicity which appear to embrace them all , this study affords its own repayment ; and it is indispensable towards the acquisition of a knowledge of the laws of terrestrial magnetism .
By a comparison of the isogonic lines corresponding to different epochs ( lines of equal Magnetic Declination employed by Halley and since found so useful in generalisation in this branch of the magnetic phenomena ) , we perceive that a secular change of the Declination , almost identical with that at St. Helena , has prevailed at the same time over the greater part of the southern Atlantic ; and that from the form of the isogonic lines in that quarter of the globe ( which has undergone very little variation in the last 200 years ) , the regularity of the progression , and its persistence in the same direction , is in accordance with that general progressive motion from east to west , which magneticians have long since recognized as distinguishing the general systematic change in the southern hemisphere from that in the northern , which takes place in the opposite direction ; whilst from the form of the isogonic lines in that quarter , we may further anticipate that , at St. Helena , the secular change of the Declination will continue to take place in the same direction as at present , until the line drawn through the conical summits of the isogonic curves shall in its western progress pass the geographical meridian of that station .
" The author then proceeds to the Variations which are found to take place in periods corresponding to a solar year and a solar day ; a correspondence which , he remarks , " enables us to recognize a physical connexion , although we are still uncertain as to the mode of operation between cause and effect .
A correct knowledge of the phenomena themselves is the surest guide to a correct judgement amongst the many theories which have been propounded in anticipation of that knowledge ; and I have therefore taken this opportunity of bringing before the Society a careful analysis of the primary annual and diurnal variations at St. Helena attributable to solar influence , in the belief that they will be found to place in a very distinct light some points which are important to be kept in view in framing or in judging of such theories .
" For this purpose diagrams were exhibited , representing on a large scale the mean diurnal variation of the Declination at St. Helena in the different months of the year , and the annual variation at each of the twenty-four hours , both derived from the mean of five years of hourly observation ; the secular change having been previously eliminated , these diagrams were regarded by the author as exhibiting what might be considered as typical views of the annual and diurnal variations , correct in their relations to the mean Declination in the year , or to the arithmetical mean of all the hourly observations in the year , taken as zero .
As on the first aspect the diurnal phenomena in the several months are seen to separate themselves into two groups , having the equinoxes as at least approximate epochs of separation , the months in which the sun is north of the equator were coloured red , and those in which he is south of the equator were coloured blue .
Having in these diagrams the conjoint representation of two distinct classes of phenomena , a diurnal variation in each of the months , and an annual variation at each of the hours , the author proceeded to treat of each of these variations separately , commencing with the annual , which he illustrated by taking the hour of 7 A.M. as an example , and ( referring to the diagram ) showing the order and succession of the several months in the annual cycle at that hour , which are as follows : in April the mean declination is about half a minute east of the mean declination in the year ; in May about 2 ' east ; in June about 21 ' east ; in July and August , when the sequence is slightly irregular , respectively 2 ' 1 and 2t'6 east ; in September the declination is again approaching the mean line , being less than 1'east of it ; in October it has passed the mean line , being about 1't west of it ; November , December , January and February are congregated near the western extremity of the annual range , whilst in March we perceive that the declination is again approaching the mean line , and in April it has passed to the east of the mean line .
" We have here , then , " the author proceeds , " in the successive changes of the declination in the course of the year , the general fact of the existence of an annual variation , of which , at the solar hour of 7 A.M. , selected as an example , or when the sun is five hours east of the meridian , the phenomena are such as have been thus cursorily described .
Were there no annual variation at that hour the different months would all have the same mean declination , and the extended figure , which in the diagram represents the annual cycle , would be concentrated into one point .
The annual variation differs considerably at the different hours ; but it is a general feature amongst them that the months on either side of the one solstice are either congregated together towards one extremity of the annual range at the hour , whilst the months on either side of the opposite solstice are similarly congregated at the opposite extremity , or the months of both solstices are contemporaneously in pretty rapid transition from the one extremity to the other .
It is this annual variation which has been overlooked in the supposition entertained by a very eminent authority , that in the vicinity of the equator the magnetic direction would be found to be constant at all hours of the day and night .
If we group together the monthly means of each period of six months separated by the equinoxes , we have two semiannual mean lines , each differing comparatively very slightly from any one of the months of which it is composed , but the two differing very greatly from each other , and both differing very considerably from the mean diurnal march in the year .
If the latter line , viz. the mean diurnal march in the year , be projected as a straight line , as is done in the zero-line of fig. 1 in the annexed woodcut , the semiannual groups take respectively the forms exhibited in that figure , the continuous line being the semiannual march in the half year when the sun is north of the equator , and the dotted line the semiannual march when the sun is south of the equator .
It is in this form that the phenomena of the annual variation in different parts of the globe may be most advantageously compared with each other .
Fig. 2 represents the analogous phenomena at Toronto in 43 ?
north , and fig. 3 those at Hobarton in 43 ?
south latitude .
The semiannual groups at Toronto and Hobarton have been obtained in precisely the same manner as those at St. Helena ; the scale is the same in the three figures , i. e. '5 of an inch to It'O of Declination , the dotted and continuous lines refer respectively to the same periods of the year , and the zero line is in each figure the mean diurnal variation in the year at the station .
" In viewing these three figures , it is scarcely possible to doubt that ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE ANNUAL VARIATION OF THE MAGNETIC DECLINATION .
Black line.-Mean Semiannual Diurnal Variation , March 22 to September 20 .
Dotted line.-Mean Semiannual Diurnal Variation , September 22 to March 20 .
Fig. 1.-St .
Helena .
hhhhhh hh hhhh hh hh hhhhhhhhhh h2 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 012345678 10 11 12 / 1 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C II ' N % 'r / they represent substantially the same phenomenon .
The magnitude and inflexions of the curves are not indeed identical , but they approach so near to it that we may well suppose the small differences to be very minor modifications which will some day receive their explanation , It will be remarked that during the hours when the sun is above the horizon and the effects are greatest , the correspondence of the phenomena at the three stations is most striking , and that there is no inversion of the phenomena in the opposite hemispheres ; in both ( as well as at St. Helena , in the tropics ) , the Declination is easterly of the mean in the forenoon and westerly in the afternoon when the sun is north of the equator , and the reverse when the sun is south of the equator .
The effects are the same at the three stations , though in the one hemisphere the sun being north of the equator corresponds to summer , and in the other hemisphere to winter ; whilst in the tropics this distinction of seasons almost ceases to be sensible , and the epochs of maximum and minimum of temperature do not correspond with either of those of the extra-tropical stations .
The phenomena thus represented embrace above 86 ?
of latitude , presenting not only almost extreme contemporaneous diversities of climate , but also not less remarkable diversities of absolute dip , declination and magnetic force .
" No doubt can , I apprehend , be entertained that the annual variation which is here represented , is attributable , primarily , to the earth 's revolution round the sun in a period of the same duration and in an orbit inclined to the equator .
But in what way , it may be asked , does the sun superimpose upon the earth 's magnetism this comparatively small but systematic magnetic variation ?
The similarity of effect , amounting almost indeed to identity at the hours when the sun is above the horizon of the station , taking place at stations where both the climatic and the terrestrial magnetic conditions are so dissimilar , seems to remove it altogether from those physical connexions , which have so often and in so many various ways been referred to as affording possible explanations of the magnetic variations .
In this difficulty some assistance may perhaps be afforded by examining more closely , by means of the St. Helena observations , the epochs when the phenomena of one of the semiannual groups passes into the very dissimilar phenomena of the other semiannual group .
This has been stated to take place approximately at the equinoxes .
The approximation , particularly at the September equinox , is very distinctly and definitely marked .
The day of the equinox is the 21st of September ; if a mean be taken of the diurnal march in the three weeks from the 1st to the 21st of September , the line which represents it scarcely differs sensibly at any hour of the twenty-four from the mean line of the preceding half-year , taken from the 22nd of March to the 20th of September ; thus showing that the phenomena of that semiannual group are unchanged up to the time of the equinox .
If in the same way a mean be taken of the diurnal march in the three weeks following the 21st of September , the line which represents them shows that the passage from the phenomena of one semiannual group to those of the other has not only commenced , but that in half the period of three weeks , i. e. within eleven days of the equinox , the change has already advanced very far towards its completion ; and by the middle of October it is found to be quite complete , the mean in October retaining no trace of those semiannual characters which had undergone no modification ten days before the equinox .
" The facts thus stated were illustrated by diagrams .
" At the March equinox the commencement of the change is equally definite : no trace of change can be discovered in the mean from the 1st to the 20th of March , when compared with the mean of the six months from the 22nd of September to the 20th of March ; the change then commences , but from some cause not yet apparent , the conversion from the phenomena of the one half-year to those of the other is effected less rapidly at this than at the September equinox .
The mean of the month of April retains the distinct traces of the group which it has quitted , and is in fact a month of transition between the two groups , but in May the conversion is quite complete ; the phenomena of that month have no characteristic distinguishable from those of June , July and August .
" From what has been stated in the preceding paragraphs , it will be evident that the epochs of the sun 's passage of the equator have a very marked influence on the phenomena under consideration , and that the influence is the same and produces similar effects whether the station itself be north or south of the equator , and however diverse may be its climatic or magnetic conditions .
The semiannual characteristics continue unchanged up to the days of the respective equinoxes ; these form the epochs when the transition from the characters of the one semiannual group to those of the other commences , the transition being completed a very few days after the September equinox , but somewhat less rapidly after the March equinox .
Like the changes in the induced magnetism of ships , which follow immediately the changes in the terrestrial magnetism corresponding to the ship 's altered geographical position , but complete the change only after intervals of time of greater or less duration , so the changes which we are here considering appear to commence at the equinoxial epochs , but to require a greater or less interval of time for their completion .
" The divergence of the semiannual groups at the different hours from a mean march in the year has been shown in figs. 1 , 2 and 3 by their comparison with the latter projected as straight lines , because the accordance of the divergence at the three stations is seen thereby in its simplest form .
In another diagram the lines thus projected as straight lines were exhibited in their true Declination values , and compared with a Zero-line representing at each station the mean Declination in the year .
" In the previous comparison of the annual variations at the three stations with each other , it was shown that there is no inversion , or contrariety , between the phenomena at Toronto and Hobarton as representatives of opposite hemispheres , the same semiannual group diverging ( during the hours of the day when the characters are most marked ) in the same direction at the same hours at both stations .
But markedly opposite characteristics are shown when we compare the divergences of the mean diurnal variation in the year from the zero-line at different stations ; these divergences , so far from according with each other at the two stations , present a strong contrast throughout ; the divergence at 'roronto being to the east at the hours when at Hobarton it is to the west , and vice versed .
St. Helena , moreover , which agrees with both the other stations in the divergences of the semiannual groups , differs from both in those of the mean of the whole year .
The phenomena of the solar annual variation superimposed upon those of the solar diurnal variation , and those of the solar diurnal variation itself , -are in this respect contradistinguished by important differences .
" To have completed the view of the solar variations of the Declination at St. Ilelena would have required a notice of the so-called irregular disturbances of that element , which are now known to have a periodical character dependent on solar hours ; and also of the remarkable cycle which is found to pervade all the magnetic variations depending upon the sun , corresponding in its period and epochs with those of the phenomena of the solar spots ; but as both these subjects have been recently brought before the Society in separate memoirs , the author does not think it necessary to do more than merely advert to them on the present occasion .
"

