XIII .
" On Rubian and its Products of Decomposition.-Part III .
By EDWARD SCHUNCK , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1855 .
Combined Action of Alkalies and Oxygen on Rubian .
In the preceding part of this paper the author has shown that the action of alkalies is essentially the same as that of acids on rubian , the only difference being that the rubianine produced by acids is replaced by rubiadine when alkalies are employed .
Now though this is in all cases the final result of the action of alkalies , there still remained a possibility of the existence of bodies intermediate between rubian and the final products of decomposition .
Such bodies do in reality exist , but their formation is dependent , in part at least , on the simultaneous action of oxygen .
When alkalies or alkaline earths , as potash , soda , ammonia , baryta or lime , or the bicarbonates of baryta or lime are added to a watery solution of rubian , and the solution is exposed to the air , oxygen is absorbed , and three distinct bodies are formed , to which the author has given the names of Rubianic Acid , Rubidehydran and Rubihydran .
The method of separating these bodies and obtaining them in a state of purity is fully detailed .
Even oxide of lead is a sufficiently strong base to cause rubian to undergo this process of decomposition in the presence of oxygen .
From this cause the lead compound of rubian , after being exposed for some time to the atmosphere , no longer contains unchanged rubian , but products of its decomposition ; and hence also it follows that in the processes pro2x posed by Kuhlmann , Berzelius and others for the preparation of the so-called xanthine , and in that of Rochleder for the preparation of his ruberythric acid , all of which depend on the use of alkaline earths or basic acetate of lead , products of decomposition of rubian must in every case be formed .
Besides the substances just mentioned , a little acetic acid , and sometimes also rubiadine , and sugar in small quantities are formed .
Whether the first is an essential product of decomposition or not , the author leaves undecided ; but the other two he considers as decidedly secondary products , resulting from the decomposition of rubidehydran or rubihydrano Rubianic acid is soluble in water and alcohol , but not in ether .
It crystallises in lemon-yellow silky needles .
Its watery solution has a distinctly but not strongly bitter taste .
When heated it yields a sublimate of alizarine .
By the action of strong acids , as well as of caustic alkalies and of erythrozym , it is decomposed into alizarine and sugar .
Its compounds with potash and ammonia crystallize in small puce-coloured needles .
The soda salt is deposited from the watery solution as a mass of small red spherical grains , which are very sparingly soluble in water .
These compounds possess very little stability .
The baryta and lime salts are obtained by double decomposition as red precipitates .
The acid is completely precipitated from its watery solution by basic acetate of lead , the precipitate being red , and resembling that produced by the same salt in a solution of rubian .
The composition of rubianic acid is expressed by the formula C52 H29 027 .
that of the potash salt by C.52 28 O26KO , that of the neutral baryta salt by Cs2 H28 026 + BaO + HO .
The conversion of the acid into alizarine and sugar is symbolized by the following equation : C02 H29 027 +5HO=2C,4 H 04+ 2C12 H12 012 .
In order to leave no doubt regarding the correctness of the formula , the author determined the quantity of alizarine formed by the decomposition of the acid .
According to calculation , 100 parts of acid slhould yield 43-44 parts of dry alizarine .
In two experiments the author obtained 42-47 and 45 17 per cent. of alizarine .
The presence of oxygen is necessary for the formation of this acid .
If a watery solution of rubian made alkaline with soda or baryta be kept out of contact with the air , no rubianic acid is produced , whereas an abundance of the latter is obtained from the same solution on exposure to the atmosphere .
The manner in which it is formed from rubian may be represented by the following equation : C56 H34 030+ 100=C52 H29 027+ 4CO + 5HO .
The author considers this as the first known instance of a body , belonging to the class of glucosides , or conjugate compounds containing sugar , having been observed to form by a process of oxidation .
lThe author thinks it probable that this acid and the ruberythric of Rochleder are identical , but the description given of the latter by the discoverer is not sufficiently minute to enable him to come to a decision on this point .
Rochleder has moreover given a very different composition for his acid .
Until the properties and composition of the latter have been more accurately investigated , the author prefers considering the two acids as distinct .
If they are identical , then Rochleder has merely committed the common error of mistaking a product for an educt .
Rubidehydran and rubihydran have both properties very nearly resembling those of rubian , from which they can only with difficulty be distinguished .
Neither of them however is capable of yielding rubianic acid when treated in the same way as rubian .
The composition of rubidehydran is expressed by the formula C56 H32 028 ' that of rubihydran by CG6 H39 O0a5 The former contains therefore the elements of 2 equivs. of water less the latter , the elements of 5 equivs. of water more than rubian .
Both substances give , when decomposed by strong acids , the same products , viz. alizarine , rubiretine , verantine , rubiadine and sugar .
The products formed by acids are therefore the same as those produced from rubian by alkalies , which renders it probable that the latter , when acted on by alkalies , is first converted into rubidehydran or rubihydran , or both .
Rubiadine may be obtained from rubihydran in large quantities and in a state of great purity , and the author had thus an opportunity of examining the properties and composition of this substance more accurately than heretofore .
From the new analyses which he made he infers that its formula is C32H13 09 , which differs from C32 H12 O8 , the one formerly given , by 1 equiv. of water .
Action of Chlorine on Rubian .
When chlorine gas is passed through a watery solution of rubian , the solution deposits lemon-yellow or orange-colour flocks and becomes colourless .
The flocks consist of a peculiar substance , which the author calls Chlororubian .
The liquid contains sugar .
Chlororubian crystallizes from its solution in alcohol in small orangecoloured needles .
It is soluble in boiling water , but not as easily as in alcohol .
On being heated , however carefully , it is decomposed .
It is dissolved by caustic and carbonated alkalies , forming blood-red solutions .
The baryta and lime compounds are red and insoluble .
The watery solution produces with basic acetate of lead a light red precipitate .
The author gives for the chlororubian the formula C44 H27 C1024 .
Its formation from rubian is represented by the following equation : C6 34 C4304+2 6HO C+1 2+ 2C1 44 CH 2+ 2C1H .
Chlororubian is decomposed by strong acids and splits up into sugar and another body , which has the formula C32 Hi2 C10 , and which , in consequence of the relation in which it stands to rubiadine , the author calls Chlororubiadine .
The manner in which this process of decomposition takes place will be seen from the following equation : C44 H27 C1024= C3 12 C109+ 12 H2 012+ 3HO .
Chlororubiadine is soluble in alcohol .
The boiling solution deposits it on cooling in yellow shining needles .
It is insoluble in boiling water .
It is not decomposed by dilute nitric acid or on boiling , but nitric acid of sp. gr. 1'52 dissolves , and on boiling decomposes it , and nitrate of silver now gives a precipitate of chloride of silver .
Chlororubiadine dissolves in caustic and carbonated alkalies with a red colour .
With baryta it gives a compound , crystallizing in long red needles .
The author did not succeed in converting rubiadine into chlororubiadine , nor , on the other hand , was he able to substitute the chlorine of the latter by hydrogen , and thus form rubiadine .
The sugar which is formed from chlororubian , together with chlororubiadine , may be obtained in a crystallized state , when it has the properties and composition of crystallised grape-sugar .
When chlororubian is treated with caustic soda , the chlorine is entirely separated , forming chloride of sodium .
The other products of decomposition are verantine , rubiretine , a body resembling rubiadine , sugar , and a yellowish-brown substance insoluble in water , in alcohol , and even in alkalies , the probable formula of which is C44 H14 012 , and for which the author proposes the name of Oxyrubian , since it owes its formation to the chlorine of chlororubian being replaced by oxygen .
By the continued action of chlorine chlororubian is converted into a white body , which the author calls Perchlororubian .
This body is insoluble in water and caustic alkalies , but soluble in alcohol and ether .
It crystallizes from the alcoholic solution in colourless , transparent , four-sided tables , exhibiting a beautiful iridescence .
When carefully heated it may be entirely volatilized .
It is not decomposed by nitric acid of sp. gr. 1'52 , even on boiling , but is merely dissolved .
Its composition is expressed by the formula C44 H9 Cl9 015 , From these experiments it follows that chlororubian is a conjugate body containing sugar .
In this respect it resembles Piria 's chlorosalicine .
In all processes of decomposition previously described rubian yields three series of compounds , just as if it consisted of three bodies .
When acted on by chlorine , however , it yields only one series of products , which corresponds exactly with one of the three series of the other processes , the bodies belonging to the two other series not making their appearance , even in the form of products of substitution .

