IV .
" On Oxalurate of Ammonia as a Constituent of Human Urine .
" By EDWARD SCHUNCK , F.R.S. Received November 15 , 1866* .
When urine is allowed to percolate through animal charcoal in the manner described in the preceding Paper , several organic substances are absorbed and separated by the charcoal in addition to the fatty acid there referred to .
The liquid obtained by treating the charcoal with boiling alcohol yields on evaporation a syrupy residue , of which a great part dissolves in water , the fatty acid being left undissolved .
The filtered liquid on being again evaporated leaves a brown syrup , among which a quantity of yellowish crystals is formed on standing .
On treating the mass with cold alcohol , the syrupy portion , consisting of urinary extractive matter , is removed , the crystals being left undissolved .
The latter are filtered off , washed with alcohol , and then dissolved in boiling water .
The solution , which has a slightly yellow colour , is evaporated to a small volume , and the crystals , which separate on standing , are pressed between blotting-paper and then dissolved in a little boiling water to which a small quantity of animal charcoal is added .
The filtered solution , if tolerably concentrated , becomes on cooling almost solid , from the formation of a quantity of white crystalline needles , which , after the liquid has been drained off , only require drying .
The substance as thus prepared consists of pure oxalurate of ammonia , since it is found to possess both the properties and the composition of that salt , as I shall now proceed to show .
The crystals of which it consists are mostly small , and exhibit , even when magnified , few well-defined forms .
When a few drops of the watery solution are allowed to evaporate spontaneously on a slip of glass , the residue , when viewed under the microscope , is found to consist mainly of groups of crystals arranged round centres in various irregular form-s , the larger ones being composed of prisms , which are acuminated , jagged at the edges , and transversely striated , the smaller ones of needles arranged in star-shaped , double fan-shaped , or circular masses .
Occasionally isolated crystals are seen , having the form of rhombic plates , some of which have two of their opposite angles truncated .
I have not yet had an opportunity of comparing these forms with those exhibited by the oxalurate of ammonia obtained directly from uric acid .
The substance is tolerably soluble in boiling water , but very slightly soluble in boiling alcohol , the little which dissolves in the latter being deposited , on the solution cooling , in fine needles arranged in stars .
The watery solution is neutral to test-paper ; but on allowing a drop to fall on blue litmus-paper , and exposing the latter to the air for some hours , the spot will appear quite red .
The watery solution , on being mixed with hydrochloric or nitric acid , yields a white crystalline deposit ( oxaluric acid ) , which , on being left in contact with the acid liquid , gradually disappears .
If nitric acid has been employed and the solution , after R teadc November 15 , 1866 : see Abstract , vol. xv .
p. 259 .
140 L[gecess , the deposit has dissolved , he spontaneously evaporated , a mass of crystals is left , some of which have the well-known form of nitrate of urea , while the others are prismatic , and consist doubtless of oxalic acid .
If the solution , after the addition of any strong acid , be boiled , oxalic acid may after a few moments be detected in it .
The watery solution gives no precipitate with chloride of calcium , not even on the addition of ammonia ; but on boiling , an abundant precipitation of oxalate of lime takes place .
If a tolerably concentrated solution be mixed with chloride of calcium and left to stand , it deposits after some time a quantity of prismatic lustrous crystals , consisting doubtless of oxalurate of lime .
The watery solution gives no immediate precipitate with nitrate of silver ; but after a few moments it begins to deposit white crystalline needles , which , if the solution was concentrated , increase to such an extent as to fill the whole liquid .
These needles are silky in appearance , and do not blacken on exposure to the light , but only become slightly yellow ; they dissolve easily in ammonia , but no reduction takes place on boiling the solution .
The watery solution of the substance gives with acetate of lead a copious crystalline deposit , and if this be filtered off , the solution yields on standing a crop of small lustrous crystals .
These crystals , when examined under the microscope , are found to have very regular forms , consisting of elongated four-sided prisms , with six terminal faces .
Whether this form is the same as that of the oxalurate of lead , prepared with acid obtained from the usual source , I cannot say , as I have been unable to find any description of the salt in the books .
The watery solution gives no precipitate with perchloride of mercury ; but on the addition of chloride of zinc it deposits after some time a quantity of white , hard crystalline grains , which , after being filtered off and washed , are found to contain no chlorine , and on being heated , melt and burn , leaving a white residue of oxide of zinc .
If the substance is dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid , and the solution , after the addition of bichloride of platinum , is evaporated to dryness , the residue on being treated with cold alcohol dissolves partly , a quantity of shining yellow crystals , consisting of chloride of platinum and ammonium , being left undissolved .
Such are the principal reactions of this substance .
Its analysis yielded the following results:-0'6230grm .
lost , on being heated for several hours in the water-bath , 0'0030 grm. , or 0'48 per cent. , a loss too trifling to be attributed to anything but hygroscopic moisture .
0'3565 grm. of the dry substance gave 0'3150grm .
carbonic acid and 0 1615 grm. water .
0-2605 grm. , burnt with soda-lime , gave 1 ' 1425 grm. chloride of platinum and ammonium .
These numbers lead to the formula C. IH , N3 O8 , which is that of oxalurate of ammonia , and requires 1867 .
] Almmzonia in Urine .
141 Experiment .
C , ... ... . .
36 24 16 24-09 Hi7 ... .
7 4-70 5-03 N3 ... ... . .
42 28-19 27-54 08 ... ... . .
64 42'95 43'34 149 V10000 100'00 It is therefore certain that the substance obtained by this process is oxalurate of ammonia .
These experiments , however , by no means decide the question whether the oxaluric acid exists originally in a friee or combined state , since most chemists deny the presence of ready-formed ammonia in urine ; and it is quite possible that in my experiments a sufficient quantity of ammonia was formed by the decomposition of urea to saturate the oxaluric acid present .
Still I incline to the opinion that the ammoniasalt preexisted in the urine examined , since there were no perceptible indications of decomposition during the percolation of the urine through animal charcoal , a process , indeed , which would rather tend to prevent decomposition than to promote it .
The acid reaction of the urine might be urged as an objection to this view ; but , on the other hand , it may safely be asserted that we are still in the dark as to the cause of the acid reaction of urine , which may be due to an acid or acids much weaker than oxaluric .
Whether oxaluric acid , either free or combined , is a normal constituent of human urine or not , is a question which may also be raised ; but it is one to which I am unable to give a decided reply , as my experiments are not sufficiently numerous for the purpose .
I may venture , however , to express my opinion that this acid will be found to be a constituent of the healthy secretion : .
The presence of oxaluric acid in urine had been previously suspected , since the dumb-bell crystals occasionally found among the deposits of oxalate of lime are supposed , by Golding Bird and others , to consist of oxalurate of lime , though the evidence on which this opinion is founded is unsatisfactory , and has been refuted by other observers .
On the other hand , there can be no doubt that the presence of oxaluric acid or its compounds in urine , whether it be an exceptional phenomenon or not , serves to explain , in an easy and satisfactory manner , the formation * In a mixture , or any impure product supposed to contain oxaluric acid , I would recommend its detection in the following manner:-The matter , if soluble , should be dissolved in water ; but if it is insoluble , in consequence of the presence of some base , a little sulphuric acid should be added to set at liberty the oxaluric acid , after which the solution should be mixed with acetate of lead ; and if any precipitate is thereby produced , this must be filtered off and the liquid left to stand , when it deposits small shining crystals if oxaluric acid is present .
The residue obtained by evaporation of the mother-liquid of creatine , obtained from urine in the usual manner by means of chloride of zinc , gave , when treated in this way , crystals which could not be distinguished by their form from oxalurate of lead .
Oxalurate of silver , distinctly crystallized , can only be obtained from perfectly pure oxaluric acid , [ Rlecess , 14 of oxalate of lime so often taking place in the secretion .
The appearance of oxalate of lime as a deposit from urine long after its emission has hitherto been a puzzling phenomenon , and the most improbable hypotheses have been resorted to in order to explain it .
It has , for instance , been assumed that there exists in the animal economy a tendency to the forrmation of a soluble triple compound of oxalic acid , lime , and albumen , which , by its decomposition , allows oxalate of lime to crystallize .
Then it has been maintained by Rees that uric acid and the urates furnish oxalic acid when the urine containing them is simply heated or boiled ; though this statement is questioned by other observers , and it is certain that under ordinary circumstances the conversion of one into the other can only be effected by means of very powerful oxidizing agents such as nitric acid .
The attempts which have been m ade to prove that oxalate of lime may exist ready formed and in a state of solution in the urine are also unsatisfactory , the only known solvent likely to occulr naturally being acid phosphate of soda .
Were this salt really the means of keeping the oxalate dissolved , the latter would only be deposited when the acid reaction of the urine had disappeared , or had at least somewhat diminished , which is not the case .
Now , however , the whole process may be easily explained .
Oxaluric acid , as all chemists know , may be considered as a compound of oxalic acid and urea minus water , its composition corresponding to that of oxamic acid .
By the action of acids , alkalies , or even water at a high temperature , it is decomposed , yielding oxalic acid and urea .
How easily this process of decomposition may be set up in urine when allowed to stand , or even boiled , need not be pointed out .
The oxalic acid as soon as formed combines , of course , with the lime which is always present in urine , producing the well-known deposit of oxalate .
Those who maintain , with Rees , that oxalate of lime may be produced in the urine after excretion are therefore quite correct , though the phenomenon has hitherto been wrrongly interpreted .
The conversion of oxaluric into oxalic acid may , howeever , commence already in the bladder , or even more remote parts of the system , and thus lead to the formation of concretions and calculi .
Regarding the origin of the oxaluric acid of urine there can be little doubt .
In the animal frame , just as in the laboratory , it must be formed by the oxidation of uric acid , which is its only known source ; it may be considered as the vehicle appointed by nature for getting rid of oxalic acid in the least injurious form .
Were this acid excreted as such , it would , by combining with lime , produce serious results , which are prevented by the simple expedient of causing it to pass off in a state of intimate union with urea .
1867 .
] Ainmoniazj in Urine .
143

