2 .
" On Rubian and its Products of Decomposition .
Part II .
Action of Alkalies and Alkaline Earths on Rubian .
" Bv Edward Schunck , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 19 , 1852 .
From the author 's experiments it appears that rubian is decomposed by the fixed alkalies , and by lime and baryta , but not by ammonia .
The products of decomposition formed by the action of the alkalies and alkaline earths are five in number .
They are as follows:-lst , Alizarine ; 2nd , Verantine ; 3rd , Rubiretine ; 4th , Sugar ; and 5th , a new substance , which the author denominates Rubiadine .
The first four possess the same properties and composition as when formed by the action of acids on rubian .
The fifth substance , rubiadine , occupies the place of rubianine , which it closely resembles .
It crystallizes from an alcoholic solution in small yellow or orangecoloured needles .
It is insoluble in boiling water , and when carefully heated it may be almost entirely volatilized , forming a sublimate of yellow micaceous scales , endowed with considerable lustre .
By these two properties it may be distinguished from rubianine , which is soluble in boiling water , and cannot be heated without being decomposed .
Its other properties coincide almost entirely with those of rubianine .
Its composition is expressed by the formula C32 H12 Os , and presuming that the formula for rubianine be C32 H , I 05 , it would differ from the latter only by the elements of 7 equivs. of water .
Besides these substances , there is also formed a small quantity of a dark brown powder , which is soluble in alkalies , but insoluble in water and alcohol .
This substance has .
precisely the same composition as the ulmic acid of Mulder , formed by the action of strong acids on cane-sugar .
Its formation is doubtless due to the further action of the alkali on the sugar formed in the first instance .
Action of Ferments on Rubian.-It has long been suspected by chemists , that the colouring matter of madder owes its formation to some process of fermentation , but the exact nature of the process has hitherto remained unknown .
That some process of decomposition takes place on extracting madder with cold tepid water and exposing the extract to a moderate temperature , is proved by the fact that the extract , if concentrated , becomes after some time thick and gelatinous ; and that the process of decomposition takes effect chiefly on the rubian is apparent , since the extract , after it has be .
come gelatinous , is found to have lost its bitter taste and the greater part of its yellow colour .
In order to prepare the peculiar fermentative substance of madder , which has the power of effecting the decomposition of rubian , it is merely necessary to add to an extract of madder made with cold or tepid water , about an equal volume of alcohol .
This causes the separation of a quantity of dark reddish-brown flocks , which are collected on a filter and washed with cold alcohol , until the percolating liquid , which is at first strongly coloured , becomes almost colourless .
The substance on the filter has the appearance of a dark reddish-brown granular mass , which possesses in an eminent degree the power of decomposing rubian .
It is a true ferment , to which the author gives the name of Erythrozym .
If a quantity of it be added to a solution of rubian , and the mixture be left to stand at the ordinary temperature , a complete change is found to have taken place in the course of a few hours .
The liquid is converted into a trembling jelly of a light brown colour , which is perfectly tasteless , insoluble in cold water , and so consistent , that if the solution of rubian was tolerably concentrated , the vessel may be turned over without its falling out .
During this process none of the usual signs of fermentation are manifested .
The liquid remains perfectly neutral , and no gas of any kind is disengaged .
On treating the gelatinous mass resulting from the process with cold water , an almost colourless liquid is obtained , which contains the same species of sugar as that formed by the action of acids or alkalies on rubian .
The mass left undissolved by the cold water consists partly of the ferment employed and partly of the substances formed by the decomposition of the rubian .
These substances are six in number , of which three are bodies previously described , and three are new .
They are,1st , Alizarine ; 2nd , Verantine ; 3rd , Rubiretine ; 4th , a substance closely resembling rubiacine , which the author calls Rubiafine ; 5th , a substance very similar to rubianine and rubiadine , on which lie bestows the name of Rubiagine ; and 6th , a peculiar fatty substance which he denominates Rubiadipine .
The three latter bodies , which are products peculiar to this process of decomposition , have the following properties : Rubiafine is obtained by crystallization from alcohol in yellow glittering plates and needles , which are sometimes arranged in starshaped or plume-shaped masses .
It cannot be distinguished by any of its properties from rubiacine ; its composition is however different .
Like the latter it is converted by the action of persalts of iron into rubiacic acid .
The author has again submitted rubiacine and rubi210i acic acid , together with , some of .
their compounds , to analysis , and from a comparison of their composition with that of rubiafine , he infers that the formular of the latter is C32 H , O 09 , that of rubiacine Cs , H1 0io , that of rubiacic acid C32 Hy017 ; .
and he inclines to the belief , that by the action of persalts of iron rubiafine first passes into rubiacine , before being converted into rubiacic acid ; while by the action of reducing agents rubiacic acid is reconverted ; first into rubiacine , and then into rubiafine .
Rubiagine is never obtained in well-defined crystals .
When its alcoholic solution is evaporated spontaneously , it is left behind in the shape of small lemon-yellow spherical grains , which when crushed and examined under a lens , are found to consist of small crystalline needles grouped round a centre .
When heated it melts , and is decomposed without being volatilized .
It is quite insoluble in boiling water .
It is soluble in boiling nitric acid , with a yellow colour , and crystallizes out again on thesolution cooling in shining needles .
Its alkaline solutions are blood-red .
The alcoholic solution gives on the addition of acetate of lead at first no precipitate , but the colour of the solution becomes dark yellow , and after some time , provided the solution be not too dilute , an orange-coloured , granular precipitate subsides , which is the lead compound of rubiagine .
If no deposit is formed , then the addition of water causes an orange-coloured flocculent precipitate , which after being washed with water , in order to remove the excess of acetate of lead , is found to be very little soluble in boiling alcohol , but is easily soluble in a boiling alcoholic solution of acetate of lead with a dark yellow or orange-colour .
When rubiagine is treated with a boiling solution of perchloride of iron , it dissolves slightly , but is not converted into rubiacic acid .
Rubiagine is distinguished from rubianine by its insolubility , in water ; ; from rubiadine , for which it might most easily be mistaken , by its being incapable of sublimation ; and from rubiafine by its not being convertible into rubiaeic acid .
Its behaviour towards acetate of lead , which is different from that of all , the other three substances , also serves to characterize it .
The .
most probable formula for rubiagine is C32 H4 010 , from which it appears that it differs from the substances just named merely -by the elements of water .
Its formation from rubian , like that of the substances allied to it , indicates the simultaneous formation of sugar .
Rubiadifine is a body of a fatty nature , as its name indicates .
In its appearance and general properties it resembles rubiretine .
It differs from the latter in always remaining soft and viscid , and never becoming hard and brittle , however longit may be heated .
Its colour is yellowish-brown .
When heated:in a tube it emits acrid fumes , similar to those produced by fat when exposed to destructive distillation .
When thrown into boiling water it melts and forms oily drops , which rise to the surface .
Its alcoholic solution gives with acetate of lead a pale reddish-brown precipitate , soluble in an excess of the precipitant .
An analysis of the lead:compound conducted to the formula C.o IH2I 0+PbO .
If this formula be accepted as the true one , the author confesses his inability to explain the formation of rubiadifine from rubian .
The great excess of hydrogen contained in it shows that solme substance must be formed simultaneously containing a large proportion of oxygen , which has hitherto escaped detection .
Having examined generally the action of erythrozym on rubian , the author next proposed to himself to inquire , by what means this action is either destroyed .
, retarded , or ; promoted , and whether any means exist of so modifying the action as to lead to theformation of particular substances hin preference to others .
: From ra variety of experiments undertaken with this object , he draws the following conclusions:1 .
There exist no means short of the complete destruction of the ferment , capable of arresting its action on rubian , except exposing it while in a moist.state to be the temperature of boiling water .
Even when exposed to that temperature , after having been previously dried , its fermenting power is not entirely lost , but merely weakened .
2 .
By the addition of various substances , usually classed as antiseptic , such as sulpl-huric acid , arsenious acid , :sugar of lead , .
corrosive sublimate , alcohol , and -oil of turpentine , during the process of fermentation , the action of the ferment is not destroyed ; it is merely retarded and modified .
3 .
The more the action of the ferment on rubian is retarded , the more rubiretine and verantine , and the less alizarine are formed ; so much so , that in some cases the alizarine disappears entirely from among the products of decomposition , which then consist almost solely of rubiretine and verantine ' .
Theformation of rubiafine and rubiagine is promoted when the actionof the .
ferment is mQderately retarded , but diminishes again -or entirely ceases when the retardation is very great:. . ?
, Of the two the rubiagine is the first to disappear when any retardation takes place .
4 .
By the addition of-small quantities of alkalies during the process of fermentation , the action is , as regards its duration , if not promoted , at : all events not , retarded ; and as regards the .
relative quantities of the various substances produced , :the amount of alizarine is thereby , ( l decidedly increased ' , while that of the rubiretine and verantine is diminished .
Most ; of the ordinary fermentative substances , such as albumen , caseine , gelatine , and yeast , are incapable of effecting thel decomposition of rubian , even when mixtures of these various-'substances with watery solutions of rubiarn are allowed to stand until they enter into a state of putrefaction .
Emulsine is the only substance capable of forming an effective substitute for erythrozym .
Its action is similar to that of the latter substance ; it gives rise however to the formation of a much larger proportional quantity of alizarine .
The action of the peculiar-albuminous substance , discovered by Braconnot in the root of the Helianthus tuberosus , on rubian , was also examined ' .
It exerts only a slight effect on the latter , the only products of .
decomposition formed being rubiretine and verantine .
The author considers the fact of erythrozym being almost the:only ferment which is capable of effecting in any considerable degree the decomposition of rubian , as the best proof of its being a peculiar and distinct substance .
When prepared by precipitation with alcohol , erythrozym is obtained as a chocolate-coloured granular mass .
When dried it coheres into hard lumps , which are almost black , and with difficulty reduced to powder .
When the dry substance is heated on platinum foil , it emits a smell somewhere between that of burning peat and burning horn , and then burns without much flame , leaving a considerable quantity of residue , which on being further heated is soon converted into a white or grey ash .
After having once been precipitated from its watery solution , even by alcohol , erythrozym cannot again be dissolved in water .
If it be mixed while in a moist state with water , it forms a reddish-brown turbid liquid , in which it exists however merely in a state of suspersion .
Erythrozym is not an uncombined substance , but is a definite compound of an organic body with lime .
When treated with acids the lime is removed , and the colour of the substance changes from reddish-brown to yellowish-brown .
If a mixture of erythrozym and water be allowed to stand for some time , the former enters into a state of putrefaction , accompanied by a disengagement of gas .
After it has entered on this stage of decomposition , it loses in great part the power of decomposing rubian , but acquires that of producing an acid reaction in a solution of sugar .
Erythrozym contains nitrogen , but in much smaller proportion than most other fermentative substances .
Its composition , when in a freshly precipitated state , is expressed by the formula C6 13I N2 04o + 4CaO .
When allowed to decompose , it loses carbonic acid , water , and lime .
A quantity which had been employed for the purpose of effecting the decomposition of rubian , and then separated again from the products of the action , had a composition corresponding to the formula C52 HE3 .
N2 O3 + 3CaO. .
In conclusion , the author gives the results of some experiments undertaken with the view of ascertaining whether madder contains more than one colouring matter or not .
He infers from his experiments , that the purpurine of other chemists is not a substance of determinate composition ; that it consists sometimes of alizarine alone , sometimes of verantine alone , sometimes of a variable mixture of both ; that only one colouring matter , viz. alizarine , can be obtained from madder ; that purpurine , madder-purple , and the various similar bodies derived from madder , owe their property as colouring matters to an admixture of alizarine ; and that they are simply the latter substance in a state of impurity .

