Contribuntions to Terrestrial Magnetismn.-No .
XI .
By Lieut.-General EDWARD SABINE , R.A. , President of the Royal Society .
Received and Read June 18 , 1868 .
THE object of the present ( i. e. the Eleventh ) Number of the Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism is the completion of the great national undertaking , the Magnetic Survey of the South Polar Regions of the Globe , corresponding to the Epoch 1840-1845 .
The Survey originated in a Report presented to the British Association for the Advancement of Science at the Liverpool Meeting in 1837 , entitled " c On the Variations of the Intensity of the Earth 's Magnetic Force observed at different points of the Earth 's Surface : " copies of this Report were widely circulated amongst the Members of the -Association previously to the Meeting at Newcastle in the following year , 1838 ; and having received a favourable notice in the opening address of the then Secretaries of the Association , Dr. GEORGE PEACOCK and Sir RODERICK MURdHISON , resolutions were passed by the General Committee , which are printed in pages xxi and xxii of the " Annual Report of the Proceedings at Newcastle in August 1838 .
" These resolutions having been formally communicated to the Royal Society , a joint committee of the two scientific institutions was appointed to bring the subject of the equipment of a naval expedition for magnetic observations in the Arctic Seas under the consideration of Her Majesty 's Government .
A single sentence from the address of this Committee may be cited as evidencing the spirit in which the joint application of the Royal Society and of the British Association was made to Her Majesty 's Government .
" The Committee consider the subject of Terrestrial Magnetism to have now attained a degree of theoretical as well as of practical importance , and to afford a scope for the application of exact inquiry , which it has never before enjoyed , and which are such as fully to justify its recommendation to the revival of that national support to which we are indebted for the first Chart of the Declinations , constructed by our illustrious countryman HALLEY in 1701 , on the basis of observations collected in a voyage expressly equipped for that purpose by the British Government"* .
The Report of the Committee thus prepared and presented to Her Majesty 's Governnment ( of which Lord MELBOURNE was at the time the Prime Minister ) dwelt in some detail on the principal objects to be accomplished by the expedition recommended .
The following passage may be especially cited as evidencing the early and just appreciation of the leading desiderata in magnetical science , and as furnishing to the readers of this paper the opportunity of judging of the degree in which the anticipations therein expressed have been realized .
" The intensity lines in the southern regions rest on observations far too few to justify any sure reliance on their courses over a large part of their extent , and over the rest are altogether conjectural .
Nevertheless there is good reason to believe in the existence and accessibility of two points of maximum intensity in the southern as in the northern hemisphere , the attainment of which would be highly interesting and important .
A correct knowledge of the courses of these lines , especially when they approach their respective poles , is to be regarded as a first , and indeed indispensable preliminary step to the construction of a rigorous and complete theory of terrestrial magnetism " Two ships , the ' Erebus ' and 'Terror , ' commanded respectively by Sir JAMES CLARK ROSS and Captain FRANcIS RAWDON CROZIER , who , besides their other qualifications , were already favourably known for their magnetic observations in the course of several north polar voyages , were selected for this service .
The magnetical instruments to be employed were prepared under my own direction , at an establishment then existing at Woolwich , but since transferred in part to the Physical Observatory at Kew .
It was a most fortunate incident that instruments specially designed for the observation of the Dip and Intensity at sea had been devised a few years previously by Mr. ROBERT WERE Fox , F.R.S. , as with the instruments previously employed for these purposes the results would scarcely have been such as to have justified the undertaking .
The 'Erebus ' and 'Terror ' sailed from the Thames in September 1839 , arrived at the Cape of Good Hope in March 1840 , and , after a sojourn of some days in Kerguelen Island , anchored at Hobarton in Tasmania , which was selected as one of the basestations of the Survey , and where a Magnetic Observatory was established .
Quitting Hobarton in November 1840 , the two ships made good a nearly south course , surmounting the difficulties occasioned by the ice , and carefully observing the Magnetic Declination , Dip , and Force in every twenty-four hours with very few exceptions , until , in the latitude of 70 ?
, the discovery was made of the great Southern Continent of South Victoria ; and its coast was followed and examined until further progress towards the south was arrested in a latitude little short of 800 , by a vast glacier extending in an east and west direction for about 30 ?
of longitude .
In returning to Hobarton on the approach of the southern winter , a route was chosen which led to the vicinity which had been named to Sir JAMES Ross as the probable locality of a higher intensity than would be found in the region of the higher dips , and as the approximate locality of the second southern magnetic pole .
The expedition arrived at Hobarton in April 1841 , having completed the first year of the Survey , and having sustained no injury either to the ships or to the instruments .
Quitting Hobarton in the following month ( May 1841 ) , it was Sir JAMES Ross 's purpose to penetrate a second time to the southward in the large8interval .
of longitude comprised between the great glacier which had arrested their southern progress in the preceding year and the land named South Shetland , to the south of Cape Horn .
This endeavour was frustrated by the ice , which admitted a progress through it between the latitudes of 60 ?
and 700 only by a continual inclination towards the west , which at length conducted them in 700 of latitude to the vicinity of their previous explorations and of the great glacier which had barred their southerly progress in the preceding year .
After revisiting some of the geographical positions in which the magnetic observations of the preceding year had been made , and thus verifying their earlier results , the ships returned to the more navigable parallels of 590 and 600 , and , traversing the South Pacific in about the latitude of 600 , rounded Cape Horn and arrived at Port Louis in the Falkland Islands in August 1842 .
Here the ships were refitted , and , sailing thence in September 1842 , passed some days at St. Martin 's Cove near Cape Horn , where very careful examinations and comparisons of the magnetic instruments were made .
Returning to Port Louis , and sailing thence on the 17th of December 1842 , the ships resumed their eastern progress , continuing the habit of daily observation of the three magnetic elements and availing themselves of every occasion which presented itself of attaining a higher south latitude .
One notable opportunity occurred towards the end of February and beginning of March , when the 71st parallel was reached , but with great difficulty and considerable peril .
On the 4th of April 1843 the ships arrived at Simon 's Bay in the vicinity of the Cape of Good Hope , thus completing the third year of the Survey , as well as the circumnavigation of the globe .
It was the practice of Sir JAMES Ross and Captain CRoziEr on all convenient occasions during the Survey to transmit the successive records of their observations to the Admiralty , by whom on their arrival they were sent to me for examination and reduction , pursuant to an arrangement between the Departments of the Admiralty and of the Ordnance , in which provision had been made for those purposes in an office under my superintendence at Woolwich .
These original records have been carefully preserved , and will be deposited for all future reference ( if required ) in the Archives of the Royal Society .
No time was lost , on the reception of these documents , in making such a provisional calculation of the results as circumstances would then permit , and in communicating both the observations themselves and the results to the Royal Society .
The instruments employed being for the most part of novel design , and the conduct and execution of a magnetic survey at sea being scarcely less so ( especially of a survey which should include the three magnetic elements ) , the provisional character of these communications was from the first distinctly recognized , and a final publication , such as the present purports to be , was throughout contemplated .
With this understanding the observations of the first year of the Antarctic Survey , with their results provisionally computed , were communicated to the Royal Society in 1:843 , and printed in the Philosophical Transactions for that year , forming the V.th Number of these Contributions ; those of the second year in 1844 , forming the VI.th Number ; and those of the third year in 1866 , forming the X.th Number of the Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism .
The success with which such Surveys could be prosecuted at sea having been shown bay the first two of the publications thus referred to , the Royal Society was emboldened topropose to Her Majesty 's Government , in 1844 , the employment of a third ship , supplied with instruments of a similar construction , in a portion of the high southern latitudes comprised between the meridians of 00 and 125 ?
E. , which was not comprehended in the voyages of the ' Erebus ' and ' Terror .
' The Admiralty having acceded to this proposition , the ' Pagoda , ' a barque of 300 tons , was hired for the purpose by the Admiral Commanding at the Cape of Good Hope , and , having been duly strengthened for ice-navigation , was fitted for a voyage of some months ' duration .
Two officers were employed conjointly in the direction of this portion of the Survey , Lieut. ( since Rear-Admiral ) J. E. L. MOORE and Lieut. ( since Colonel ) HENRY CLERK of the Royal Artillery .
Lieut. MOORE had been one of the officers of the ' Terror ' in Sir JAMES ROSS'S expedition , and was consequently accustomed to the navigation of the high latitudes , as well as practised in magnetic observations having taken a very prominent share in those of the ' Terror .
' Lieut. CLERK had been attached by Lord VIVIAN , Master-General of the Ordnance , to the Magnetic Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope , with the express view of being employed in a Magnetic Survey , either of the Colony itself , or of such part of the globe as might be conveniently accessible from it , and , in the passage from England to the Cape , had had an opportunity of practising with the instruments employed in a magnetic survey conducted on the ocean .
The 'Pagoda ' completed her survey between the 60th and 70th parallels , and between the 4th and 96th meridians of East longitude , returning to the Cape by South Australia and Mauritius .
The results were communicated to the Royal Society in the same provisional form with those of the ' Erebus ' and 'Terror ' in the VIII.th Number of these Contributions , in which Number were also included the determinations of the Inclination and Intensity made at sea by Lieut. ALEXANDER SMITH , R.N. , and by Lieut. JOSEPH DAYMAN , R.N. ( officers employed at the Magnetic Observatory at Hobarton ) , on passages from Hobarton to the Cape of Good Hope , in which they were provided with instruments similar to those employed by Sir JAMES ROSS .
One of the chief difficulties anticipated in these undertakings arose from the circumstance that magnetic determinations made at sea are necessarily subject to the disturbing influence of the iron which cannot be wholly dispensed with in the equipment of a ship fitted for general navigation , and which , even when reduced to its smallest practicable amount , and kept as far as may be possible at a distance from the magnetic instruments , still exercises a disturbing influence which in the high latitudes becomes excessive , and requires to be met by appropriate corrections .
The disturbing influence of the ship 's iron on the pointing of the compasses had attracted the notice of some of the most careful marine surveyors towards the close of the last century , and had been met by empirical rules of inconsiderable extent and partial application-when in 1818 the 'Isabella ' and 'Alexander , ' ships of a class corresponding in many respects to the 'Erebus ' and ' Terror , ' were employed in the first expedition to the Arctic Polar Regions , and were led by the objects of the expedition into localities where the navigation had to be conducted in magnetic Inclinations exceeding 850 , when the superior influence of the ship 's iron so far prevailed over the directive influence of the earth ( upon the horizontal needles ) , that it was obvious that we had nearly attained the limit within which the compass , as it had been previously 'employed , could be available in navigation .
In a paper presented to the Royal Society on the return of the expedition to England , and printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1819 , Art .
XVI .
, I have related these particulars , together with the partial remedies which suggested themselves at the time ' and on the spot , and which were so far practically successful that , both in that voyage and in the next ( viz. in 1819 and 1820 , when Barrow 's Straits were passed and still higher magnetic inclinations were encountered ) , we were still enabled to use the ship 's compasses in navigation , and in some degree also as aids in fixing geographical positions by compass bearings , until the inclination became so great that the directive force of the earth on the horizontal needle ceased to be appreciable , and the compass pointed uniformly to the general resultant of the ship 's attraction , whatever might be the direction of the ship 's head at the time .
In 1824 M. POISSON communicated two Memoirs to the French Institute , in the first of which he propounded a mathematical theory of transient induced magnetism founded on the physical theory of COULOMB , that by induction each particle of soft iron becomes a magnet , having an intensity proportional to that of all the forces which act on it , including the force of the magnetism developed by induction in all the other particles of the mass .
In a subsequent Memoir , published in 1839 , " Sir les Deviations de la Boussole produites par le fer des vaisseaux , " M. POISSON adapted his formule to observations made on shipboard in the particular case of the soft iron being symmetrically distributed on either side of the principal section of the ship .
The memoir was accompanied by a practical application and verification of the theory , showing the accordance of the calculated results with the facts recorded in the Arctic voyages of 1818 , 1819 , and 1820 , spoken of above .
A careful examination of the disturbances of the needle in the 'Erebus ' and 'Terror ' in their passage from England to the Cape of Good Hope in 1839 , showed that in both ships they were occasioned chiefly , if not wholly , by the magnetism induced in the iron of the fittings and equipment by the vertical part of the earth 's force , and which was distributed symmetrically on either side of the fore-and-aft vertical section passing through the compass .
In the case of these ships , therefore , M. POISSON'S method of analysis was strictly applicable ; and its practical application was greatly facilitated by a memorandum drawn up by Mr. ARCHIBALD SMITH , F.R.S. , with which he obligingly supplied me , and which was printed in the provisional discussion of the observations of Sir JAMES Ross 's expedition in the first year of the Survey , in the V.th Number of these Contributions ( Philosophical Transactions , 1843 , Art .
VIII .
) , and by a supplementary memorandum , printed in the VIII.th Number of the Contributions ( Philosophical Transactions , 1846 , Art .
XVIII .
) .
Mr. SMITH has now furnished me with a third memorandum , which I subjoin .
Pormulce for the correction of observations of -Dip and Total Intensity made in Wood-built Ships .
In the Memorandum printed in the Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism , No. V. Philosophical Transactions , 1843 , p. 147 , the following expressions will be foundwhich are immediately derived from the formula given by POISSON in the Memoirs of the Institute , vol. v. p. 533 .
Acos'cos"'=cos cos ?
+asinO,.( ) Alf $ cosO'sin '=bcosOsin , ( 2 ) Al sin '=ccosOcos +dsinO .
( 3 ) In these expressions p is the total Magnetic Intensity expressed in any unit .
0 is the Dip .
' is the magnetic azimuth of the ship 's head .
pt .
0 ' , it are the same quantities affected by the induced magnetism of the soft iron in the ship .
Al , a , 6 , c , d are coefficients depending on the amount and distribution of the -soft iron .
These expressions are based on the assumptions that all the iron of the ship is ( magnetically ) soft , and that it is symmetrically arranged on each side of the fore-andaft section .
These assumptions are nearly true in ships such as the 'Erebus ' and Terror .
' In the same memorandum , p. 148 , expressions are given for 0 ' and p ' in terms of 0 , p , Ad 4 " , from which the coefficients may be determined if we have a sufficient Rumber of corresponding observations ; and from them Tables of double entry may then be constructed , giving the corrections to be applied to the observed values 0 ' and P ' in any required dip .
These formulae are exact , and may be used whatever be the amount of disturbing force , but are not very conveniently adapted for calculation .
When , as in the 'E rebus ' and ' Terror , ' the disturbing force is small , we may treat the errors of Dip and Force as small quantities of which the squares and products may be neglected , and we may then obtain the errors of dip and force by simple expressions of the form -O=L+M cos ?
+N cos 2X , =-P+Qcos 4+R sin 24 ' If the observations of UO and are made on any number of equidistant magnetic points exceeding two , the coefficients L , M , N , P , Q. K may be obtained with great facility by applying the method of least squares , as in the Memorandum in Contribution No. VIII .
, Philosophical Transactions , 1846 , p. 346 , and as in the ' Admiralty Manual for the Deviation of the Compass .
' In this way , from observations made on sixteen points in the 'Erebus ' at Hobarton in 1840-1841 , we obtain U= -2'-66 ' cos 4+6 ' cos 2 , -+ 0053-0146 cos -+0009 cos 24 .
These formulae give the error , and therefore , changing the sign , the correction of the Dip and Total Intensity on any magnetic azimuth at the place of observation .
If we wish to know how the coefficients L , M , N , P , Q , R are affected by a change of dip , we may proceed as follows .
From equations ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) we obtain COS t CO f cos 0 COS C-A'a tan D+(A'-1 ) cos , .
( 4 ) Cos0 up ' cos 0 sin 4'cos 6 sin COS 6 ~~~ ( A'b -1 ) sin~.5 sin 6 =A -1 +A'8 cot 0 cost .
( 6 ) Let x , y , z be the components of p in the three rectangular directions , to head , to starboard and to nadir , so that x= ; cos 0 cos I , y= , p cos 0 sin ?
, z=@ sin 0 and let of Tie z ' be the same quantities affected by the magnetism of the ship , and let A be the horizontal force =VPv2+y2=@ Cos 0 , and let a'-x=zs , y8-y=by , z'-z=z , then equations ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) become W =Ala tan a+ ( At-1 ) cos ( Alb-1 ) sin " , =A'd-1 +A'c cot 0 cos ; and as tan 0=Z , k~z-zah ( azv ax a sin 0 cos Z-h cos '-i sin C -L+M cos ?
+ N cos 2 where L=+1A(d +-2 ) sin 20 , MAG-NETISM , M=z+ ?
A'{c-a+(c+a ) cos20 } , N= 'Al sin 20 .
Also 92X2 +2 +Z2 10=XS+y y+zZ , ap CO2 0 ax aya =cos2 { hCos ?
Ysill }+sin2 0 -P+Q cos ++R cos 24 , where P+()A ' dAl ) cos 20 , Q= + !
A'( , c+a ) sin 24 , R=+-A ' ( I+cos 20 ) .
If we suppose 01 , LMPR to be values of 0 , A , L , &amp;c. at a base-station , then at any other station at which the dip is d , we have Lz= L , sin 24 , sin 20 , M=M , -Q , cot 20 , + SinR1 cos 24 , N= sin,23 sin 2 , sin 20 , P=PI +LI cot 01 csin 201n2 , os20 1+cos 20 ( I +cos 20 ) .
It will be observed that P , Q , R are abstract numbers , while L , M , N are angles the numerical values of which depend on the assumed unit of angle .
The values just given may be used without modification if the angular unit be the angle subtended by the arc=radius , or 57 ? ?
3 .
If the unit of angle be , say 1 ' , then in the expression for M we must divide Q , by sin 1 ' , and in the expression for P we must multiply L , by sin 1 ' .
As a check on the values of N and X , we may observe that we ought to have sin 20,1 + Cos 201+A2(lb ) in the notation of the Admiralty Manual ; And that if we have the value of IA ' I1 -b ) , or I determined independently from the observation of deviation and horizontal intensity , it will in general be better to use it than the value of N1 and obtained from the observations of dip and total sin 20 , 1 +sin 201 intensity .
The observations for the 'Erebus ' at Hobarton treated in this way give B= 3 ' sin 20+ { -3'+81 ' cos 20 } cos.-14 ' sin 20 cos 2 ?
, a==0045-'001cos 20+-0234sin2dcos +-004(1+cos20)cos2t .
This is the formula from which the Tables used for correcting the dips and intensities observed in the 'Erebus ' have been computed .
P.S. It may be convenient for persons who make use of the Admiralty Manual to have the expressions for L , M , N , P , Q , R , A ' , a , b , c , d in the notation of that work .
L=+ l(k+ 1-X ) sin 20 , M=+l(g-o)-+(g+c ) cos 20 , N= --XI sin 20 , P= l(k-.l+x)-l(k+-l ) cos 20 , Q= + ( gic ) sin 20 , R= + &amp; ( 1 +cos 20 ) .
This Memorandum .
Admiralty Manual .
Al .
I +a=X(I+t a a= i-+--icot 0 , 1~~l+cl -X C 9+a=i+z 1+a 1+a 1+a Before the 'Erebus ' and 'Terror ' sailed from Hobarton in November 1840 to commence the first year of the Survey , the deviations of the Declination , as shown by the Standard Compass in each ship , were very carefully observed ; and the observations were repeated on the return to Hobarton at the conclusion of the first year 's Survey , in June 1841 .
The results are printed in Contributions No. V. , those of the 'Erebus ' in page 154 , and those of the 'Terror ' in page 159 .
Tables for the correction of the Deviation in the different values of the Inclination , in the first and second years of the Survey , were computed from these observations employing Mr. ARCHIBALD SAJTH ' , MDcccLxvJIJ .
3 G tSABINE ON TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM .
Table in Contribution No. VIIL pp. 352 , 353 ; and the same was done for the third year of the Survey from a mean of similar observations at Port Louis in the Falkland islands in August 1842 , and at the Cape of Good Hope in April 1843 , as stated in Contribution No. X. pp. 455-457 .
The corrections for the Deviation in the observations of the Inclination and of the Intensity were computed in all cases by the method described in Mr. SMITH'S Memorandum in the present Number , page 379 , -employing for the first and second year 's Surveys the mean of the observations of the 'Erebus ' at Hobarton in October 1840 , before her departure for the south , and at the same place , in June 1841 , on her return* , and for the third year from the 'Erebus ' Table in Contribution X. p. 459 , and the ' Terror ' Table in Contribution X. p. 461 .
The Deviations of the Declination became very large when the Inclination approached 90 ?
; in 88 ?
of Inclination , for example , the influence of the ship 's iron occasioned a deviation amounting to the excessive value of 50 ?
and upwards at the extreme points ; so that an observation with the ship 's head East would in consequence differ 1000 or even more from an observation taken at the same place with the ship 's head West .
It was doubtless the experience of such extreme differences which led to what might almost appear an excessive multiplication of observations , as well as to the constant endeavour to diversify the circumstances of the direction of the ship 's head , both which precautions have contributed in no small degree to reduce within such comparatively small limits the differences which are seen in the Tables between the m'ean values of the Declination on the same or on successive days .
Even the remaining minor differences which appear might probably have been still further reduced by another precaution , the desirability of which may not have been so clearly apprehended at the time , namely , the recording the direction of the ship 's head at the precise instant when the pointing of the compass is read .
Unless the two observed facts strictly synchronize , the very slight and almost momentary change in the direction of the ship 's head will occasion an apparent discordance in successive results when the ship 's head is near the extreme points of East or West , though it may have little ultimate influence on the position or the direction of the isogonic lines in the final result of a great body of observations .
This remark applies in a far minor degree to the differences of successive or of nearly adjacent results of the Inclination or Intensity , where no such excessive increase in the amount of the deviation-corrections takes place when approaching the point of 900 of Inclination .
A critical eye may well regard the general ' Mr. Fox 's apparatus , designed for the use of the ' Terror ' in the Antarctic Survey , not having been quite ready when the 'Erebus ' and ' Terror ' sailed from England in 1839 , a smaller apparatus was supplied for immediate use ; and the apparatus actually employed ( in the 'Terror')in the Survey did not reach that ship until she was on the point of sailing from Hobarton in 1840 .
It was found , however , on careful subsequent examination that in the two ships the corrections for the deviations of the Inclination and of the Force were so nearly the same in the course of the first two years of the Survey , that the Table computed from the observations of the 'Erebus ' referred to in the text might safely be employed for the correction of the observations of these elements in the ' Terror .
' accordance of the results of the Declination on successive days , or on the.return in successive years to the same localities , as satisfactory to a degree which might scarcely have been anticipdUU , 1SU iV b11il CAb1C1U VI uu above-noticed fact to .
have been known and duly .
borne in mind , viz. that the observed Declinations were subject to variations extending to 100 degrees and upwards , according to the direction of the ship 's head at the moment when the compass was observed* .
Tables in which all the required corrections have been applied to the individual observations have been prepared , and will accompany this paper with a view to their being deposited in the Archives of the Royal Society , in case a reference to them should be hereafter desired : andfrom these , General Tables have been prepared showing the mean Geographical Positions and the mean Magnetical Values after the application of the Corrections ( including the latest of these ) , together with the number of observations from which each result has been obtained .
These General Tables are subjoined at the close of the paper .
The intensities of the magnetic Force are expressed in Absolute Value , in British units , depending upon the determinations of these values at the Magnetic Observatories of Hobarton and the Cape of Good Hope , regarded as the base-stations of the Survey ( Contribution X. , Philosophical Transactions , 1866 , Art .
XX .
pp. 463 , 464 ) .
The mean results have been inserted in the Maps of Declination , Inclination , and Intensity of the Force , respectively , and constitute the authorities upon which the endeavour has been made to trace the general course of the isogonic , isoclinal , and isodynamic lines , in conformity with the observations of the Survey .
The maps with the lines thus traced upon them have supplied the groundwork for the next step , viz. the assignment , as far as could safely be done , of the approximate values of each of the three elements at the intersections of every fifth degree of latitude between -40 ?
and -90 ?
, and of every 10th degree of longitude from 0 ?
to 3600 , thus supplying the numerical coefficients which may be required , in whole or in part , in a revision of GAUSS'S 'Allgemeine Theory des Erdmagnetismus .
' We learn from the original publication of that important work , in the ' Resultate aus den Beobachtungen des Magnetischen Vereins , ' im Jahre 1838 , and the ' Atlas des Erdmagnetismus , ' 1840 , that the numerical data employed in the calculations were for " twelve meridional points on each of seven parallels of latitude " the greater part of the parallels being taken north of the equator , and none south of -20 ? .
To those who duly considered the possible influence of this incompleteness of the numerical coefficients , it will not have been matter of surprise that where these were wanting the result of the calculations should have been found to differ widely from the facts made known by the Survey .
The application of the theory professed , indeed , to be simply a first attempt from which we were entitled to expect little more than a rough approximation .
Viewed in this light ( and it must be remembered that this was all that the author himself claimed for it ) , ' its publication could only be regarded as strengthening the grounds on which the desire was felt for more complete and trustworthy data than were possessed by M. GAUSS in 1839 .
The failure of the theory , as provisionally applied , to reproduce in the Southern Hemisphere the peculiar and characteristic features of the Terrestrial Magnetism which were so well established by observation and represented by the theory in the Northern Hemisphere , and the strong objection to receiving on less than conclusive evidence so improbable an anomaly as this diversity in the two hemispheres , tended , without doubt , greatly to stimulate the endeavours of those who desired to render the facts of observation in the Southern Hemisphere more commensurate with the theory in which they were.to be employed .
Accordingly in the VI.th Number of the Contributions ( Philosophical Transactions , 1844 , Art .
VII .
) I exhibited in Plate XIII .
the lines of equal intensity deduced from the observations in the first two years of Sir JAMES Ross 's Survey , in comparison with GAUSS'S theoretical lines taken from Plates XVIII .
and XIX .
of the 'Atlas des Erdmagnetismus , ' showing the difference between the two .
The immediate object of this comparison was to strengthen the application which was then being made for the additional employment of the 'Pagoda ; ' whilst the two following sentences which I venture to extract from the paper accompanying the Plate , are sufficient to manifest that a full respect for the theory itself and for its illustrious author was not wanting .
" The very imperfect resemblance between the two systems of lines in the southern hemisphere is of course no impeachment of the sufficiency of the theory , with corrected numerical elements , to represent the natural phenomena in parts of the globe which observation may not have reached .
The degree of approximation to which it will do this mniust depend upon the extent and correctness of the observation-basis from whence the numerical elements are derived , and upon the order of the magnitudes comprehended in the calculation .
" The evidence which the Plate affords that the calculation in the elaborate work referred to differs so widely from the .
facts in the southern latitudes , shows how much observations were wanting in those latitudes for the purpose of perfecting the theory , and is an ample justification ( if indeed any justification were necessary ) of the exertions which the last few years have witnessed to obtain them .
" I am greatly indebted to the Hydrographer , Captain RcIiARDS , R.N. , F.R.S. , for his -kind permission to have the maps which accompany this Number of the Contributions prepared at the Hydrographic Office , and am particularly obliged to the Assistant Ilydrographer , Captain FREDERICK JOHN EVANS , R.N. , F.R.S. , for the very valuable superintendence which he has kindly given to their preparation and execution .
It may be desirable that I should add a few words in explanation of the sense in which , in the present and in earlier papers , I have employed certain of the technical expressions appertaining to this branch of the physical sciences .
Thus:-I have used the terms magnetic pole and poles in their original and natural sense , as designating those points on the surface of the globe where the intensity of the magnetic force is a maximum in comparison with adjacent localities-in other words , the centres of the lemniscates into which , at our present epoch in the magnetic cycle , the isodynamic lines of highest intensity resolve themselves .
In one of the earliest systematic treatises on the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism as derived from and resting on observation , ( that of HALLEY in the Philosophical Transactions for 1683 , ) it is unhesitatingly affirmed , on the evidence of well-assured facts , that " s the globe of the earth may be regarded as one great magnet having four magnetical poles , or points of attraction , two of them near each pole of the equator ; and that in those parts of the globe which lie near any of those magnetical poles , the needle is chiefly governed thereby , the nearest pole being always predominant over the more remote .
" It is in this , its original signification , bearing date so early as 1683 , that I have employed the term " 1 magnetic pole .
" The magnetic surveys which have been so carefully and systematically made in the course of the present century over almost all the accessible parts of the globe , may now be considered to have fully confirmed the truth of HALLEY'S remarkable anticipation , and may be claimed in full justification by those who , following in the steps of our sagacious and illustrious countryman , employ the terms which he was amongst the first to use ( and the first to assign to them their true significancy ) , in the same sense in which he himself employed them .
The Halleian hypothesis , and the incontrovertible facts on which it rested , were for a time obscured by the prevalence of a uniaxial hypothesis , in which the points of maximum force were assumed to be identical with the points where the inclination is 90 ?
; around which , as their centre , the isodynamic and isoclinal lines were supposed to be arranged symmetrically in parallel lines ; hence the term magnetic pole came , in the uniaxal hypothesis , to be attached to the points where the inclination is 90 ?
, that element being the easier of determination , and consequently the one most popularly regarded .
But the acceptance of the uniaxial hypothesis has gradually yielded to the progressive advance of observational knowledge ; and one of its ablest expositors ( BiOT ) , as far back as the commencement of the present century , was constrained to admit that , even in the case of apparently the most simple of the three elements ( viz. the Inclination ) , a single magnetic axis would afford no sufficient explanation of the phenomena , unless it were supplemented by the supposition of subordinate centres ; whilst as regarded the known facts of the Declination and Intensity , they must be held to be wholly inexplicable on the supposition of a single magnetic axis ( Report of the British Association , 1837 , p. 64 ) .
Preserving , therefore , the sense in which HALLEY employed the term magnetic pole , and in accordance with the evidence , now fully established by observation , of the existence of four such points on the surface of the globe , the magnetic equator is most properly defined as the line connecting those points in each geographical meridian where the intensity of the earth 's magnetism is less than in any other point situated in the MAGNETISM* same geographical meridian .
This line , at the present magnetic epoch , has a double curvature .
I was myself the first , iI believe , to trace ( Philosophical Magazine for February 1829 , Art .
XV .
) the position on the globe of the magnetic equator as thus defined , and to exhibit it in comparison with the line of no dip , from which it differs very considerably in geographical position* .
In concluding this ' paper , I should be unjust to the memory of Sir JAMES Ross and to my own high regard to his memory , if I failed to record my conviction that , by the remarkable character of his geographical discoveries , by the perseverance and indomi-table resolution which he displayed on so many occasions , and by that which we of the Royal Society are peculiarly able to appreciate and peculiarly bound to honour and applaud , i. e. the large extent and high character of his contributions to the advancement ; of the sciences connected with physical geography in the polar regions of both hemispheres , he has established a claim to be regarded as the first scientific navigator of his country and of his age .
Numerical Coefficients , for a revision of GAUSS'S Allgemeine Theory , pp. 386 &amp; 387 .
II .
General Tables of the Values entered in the Maps ( Plates XXII .
to XXIV .
) , pages 388-416 .
NOTE .
In the vicinity of the Great Glacier , where the Southerly progress of the Ships was arrested , and many days were passed in the endeavour to discover some channel by which a further advance might be made , the rapid convergence both of the geographical meridians and of the lines which represent every 10th degree of Declination has made it desirable to depart , in the Map of the Declination , from the practice which has been generally followed elsewhere in the Map , of inserting the mean of each day 's observations in the geographical position to which it corresponds .
In the " 1 General Tables " the daily means in -this part of the voyage are inserted as usual ; but in the Map the number of entries in latitudes exceeding 750 5 .
has been reduced by combining the observations in larger groups .
The manner in which this has been done is shown in a small subsidiary Table in page 391 , where the small letters a , b , e , &amp;c. , referring to the results characterized by the same letters in pp. 389 and 391 of the General Tables , supply the requisite connexion between the Tables and the Map .

