in which the experiments were madewas so much darkened that nothing but theillumination from the eye was visible , the animal , by change of posture , or some other means , almost immediately deprived the observers of all light from that source .
This was found to be the case , whether theie cat , the tiger , or the hyena , was the subject of the experiment .
On the other hand , when the light in the room was sufficient ffor the animal -itself to be seen , the illumination in the eye was more obscure , and appeared to arise from the external surface of the iris .
As the difficulties which occurred in making observations on , the illuminated state of the eye in the living animal were so great , an attemlpt-"was made to repeat ; ' as nearly as possible , the experiments after death .
In doing so it was ' found , 'that a strong light thrown upon the cornea ' illuminated the iris , as it had done in the living eye ; but , ' when the cornea was removed , / this illumination disappeared .
The iris was then dissected of , and the lucid tapetum completely exposed to -view ; the reflection from which was extremely bright ; the retina proving no obstruction to the rays of light , but appearing equally transparent withbthe vitreous humour and crystalline lens .
From these experiments it appeared evident , that no light is generated in the eye ' the illumination being-wholly produced by the concave bright-coloured surface of the tapetum , collecting , the rays o6f theexternals light , concentrated by the cornea and crystalline lens , and reflecting them through the pupil .
When the iris is completely open , thie6 degree of brilliancy is the greatest ; but , when the iris is partly contracted which it always is when the external light iincreased , then the illumination is more obscure , and appears to come from the iris ; a part of the light reflected from the tapetum being thrown back , by the concave surface of the cornea , upon the anterior surface of the iris , giving it a bright shining ap.e pearance .
The influence which the will of the animal has over this lu-minous appearance , seems altogether to depend on the contraction and relaxation of the iris .
When the animal is alarmed or first disturbed , it naturally dilates the pupil , and the eye glares ; when it is appeased or composed , the pupil contracts , and the light in the eye is no longer seen .
The most material information that has been gained in this investigation , is the transparent state of the retina in the eye during life ; the opaque membranous appearance which it puts on in the dead body not being natural to it , but a change which takes place in consequence of -death .
This fact is almost all that is necessary , to explain the luminous appearance in the eyes of cats .
That neither Baron HALLER nor FONTANA had an adequate idea of the transparency of the retina , will appear from the following expressions respecting it , taken from their works : HALLER describes it in the following words , " Membranam crassam quidem , sed mollisimam , pellucidam " utique , quando recens oculus inspicitur , ut per eam sub aquis choroideam videas ; tamen ex flavo subcineream .
" * So that , although he calls it transparent , he says it is of a yellowish ash-colour .
FONTANA'S expressions are , " Cette insensibility de la retine " c a la lumi~re , en tant que lumiere , ddrive-t-elle de ce que les " t nerfs sont encore trop gros , et no sont pas bien ddcouverts des " tissus cellulaires ?
ou de ce que la pulpe de la retine est trop " amoncelhe , et emp6che les rayons de lumiere d'arriver jusqu'a " ces mdmes nerfs ?
" * In considering the use of the lucid tapetum , it .
was an idea of the late Mr. HUNTER'S , that the retina received a double stroke from the rays of light which entered the eye ; one in passing to the tapetum , the other in returning from it .
This very ingenious opinion had some difficulties opposed to it , while the retina was supposed capable of obstructing the rays of light even in the smallest degree , as they could not be equably transmitted , so as to affect every part of the membrane alike .
But the retina being ascertained to , be absolutely transparent , these objections are entirely removed , and there can be no doubt that the rays of light , in those eyes which have a lucid tapetum , must remain upon the retina as long again as in the eyes of other aniinals ; since the ' time required to strike upon the tapetum , and return , must be twice as much as is necessary for passing through the retina , to reach the .
nigrum pigmentum , where they are lost .
This may appear to be a consideration of little consequences as the velocity of light is so great , and the continuance of impression necessary for distinct vision is that produced by a successive flow of similar rays of light -from the object .
; it may , however , be all that is , necessary for the purpose .
The retina being found perfectly transparent , when , the eye is examined in a recent state , led to the idea that the internal structure of the optic nerve , .
when examined in the same state , might also be transparent .
To ascertain this point , the following experiment was made : The posterior half of a cat 's eye , while in a very recent state , was immersed in a bason of water , and examined .
The tapetum appeared very bright , the retina not having acquired sufficient opacity tobecome Visible:1 ' the entrance of the boptic'nere was a very white spot which seemed to be opaque ; but , when small pieces of coloured paper were alternately placed between the outside : of the eye and the bottom of the bason , their colour was distinctly seen in the cavity of the eye , through the substance of the optic nerve ; so that , at this part , the internal structure of the -nerve has a degree of transparency .
This appeared to be a newly-discovered fact ; and , to ascertain whether it was really so , the works of several physiologic cal writers were consulted , but nothing was found which gave an idea that their authors had the smallest knowledge of it .
This semi-transparent state of the internal parts of the optic nerve , while recent , led naturally to the examination of its substance , by means of magnifying glasses ; and , notwithstanding the failure of so manya men of Superior abilities , in this intricate inquiry it held out the hope of meeting with : some succes~s .
The principal theories which have been formed respecting the structure of nerves , have been taken notice of by FONTANA : as they all differ from the observations which will -be stated in the present Paper , it may not be improper to mention the heads of each of them , so as to bring into one point 6f view , all the knowledge that has been acquired on the subject .
TOR found the medullary substance of the brain , spinal marrow , and nerves , to be a mass of transparent-globules , swimming in a transparent fluid .
When the parts were magnified one thousand times , the globules appeared largest in the brain , and smaller in the spinal marrow ; they had no regular order : but , in the nerves , the globules were placed in lines , so as to give the appearance of fibres .
In examining the optic nerve , the parts were magnified 12o times .
PROCIHASKA considered the nerves to be composed of globulesi united by a transparent elastic cellular membrane , and disposed in straight lines , resembling fibres .
FONTANA found the primitive structure of nerves toi.consist of transparent cylinders , which , when united , formed the nerve : the manner of their being disposed is notmentioned .
The ob0 jects were magnified 700 times , to show this appearance .
Dr. MONRO considered the nerves as made up of spiral fibres but afterwards found that what he .
had described was entirely an optical deception .
In his last work , he says , " ; The optic " nerves have , in their whole course , less appearance of a fibrous " structure than perhaps any other pair of nerves in the human .
body .
" Other authors may have written upon this subject , and may have made observations upon the structure , of nerves , , butl want of leisure must be an excuse for my not having come to a knowledge of them .
It is scarcely necessary to mention , fthat parts of an animal bod-y are not fitted for being examined by glasses of a great magnifying power ; and , wherever they are shown .one hundred times larger than their natural size , no dependence , can be placed upon their appearance .
In making the following microscopical experiments on the internal structure of the optic nerve , great care was taken to avoid the errors of former inquirers .
The microscope used was a single one ; the focallength of the lens was about o of an inch , so that the object was magnified about es times ; and , that the results of the experiments might be as free from optical deceptions as the present state of our knowledge in this branch of science will admit , no appearance is described which Mr. RAMSDEN was not satisfied of having distinctly seen .
The experiments performed with the single microscope were repeated with a double one , made by Mr. RAMSDEN , Which magnified the object about go times ; but , in the double microscope , the appearances were indistinct , the reflection from the different glasses having thrown a confused glare upon the moist surface of the nerve .
This circumstance led Mr. RAMSDEN to object to the use of.compound microscopes , and to consider them as unfit for viewing objects of this kind .
For the following.reasons , the optic nerve of the horse was selected , as the most proper for the experiments .
It is of a large size , and several inches in length .
It is readily procured in a recent state ; as there are places in London where horses are allowed to be killed , and regular days in the week are fixed for that purpose .
That the examination of the nerve might be made as soon as possible after the animal 's death , permission was procured from the man who superintends the killing of horses , to allow Mr. CLIFT to make the necessary experiments on the spot , the moment the horses were killed .
Mr. C-LIFT is the person entrusted with the -care of keeping in order the late Mr. HuNTER'S collection in comparative anatomy , and is well qualified , from his anatomical knowledge , and -a familiarity in looking at organized parts through magnifying glasses , for an examination of this kind .
These experiments were afterwards repeated by Mr. RAMSDEN and myself .
From this mode of conducting them , the chances of error were few ; since the person who first observed the appearances had no previous opinions on the subject ; and Mr. RAMSDEN was better able than any other person , to correct such optical errors as might deceive Mr. CLIFT or myself .
The first experiments were made upon transverse sections of the nerve .
One , near its termination inx the eye , was placed upon glass , and exhibited in the microscope the following appearances : it was evidently composed of two parts , one opaque , the other transparent .
The opaque portions were nearly circular in their ishape about 6oo in number , and touched one another ; the interstices between them were transparent .
When the opaque parts were attentively examined in a favourable light , and the nerve was in a recent state , they were found to be made up of a great number of smaller portions , each of which appeared torbe also opaque .
To see this subdivision of parts required some attention , and in many sections it could not be perceived .
The cause of the difficulty seemed to be , the softness and tenacity of the substance divided , which therefore spread itself over the surface , giving it an uniform appearance ; but , towards the circumference of the nerve , where the parts were cut obliquely , and some of them torn , the subdivision was very distinct .
It was first observed by Mr. CLIFT , In several different sections ; and was afterwards seen very distinctly , both by Mr. RAMSDEN and myself , in a nerve examined About two hours after death .
Having repeated these experiments six or seven times , on different days , so as to ascertain the accuracy of the results , the next object was , to determine whether the nerve had the same structure in its whole course .
For this purpose , trans verse sections were examined in different parts of the nerve , near the brain , towards the middle , and nearer the eye : of these experiments the following are the results .
In all the sections , the nerve appeared to be made up of the same sub stances ; but the size and number of the opaque parts differed very much .
They have been stated , near the eye , to be 60o ; about the middle of the nerVe , they were 15o0 , and , near the brain , between the origin and union of the two nerves , they were only about 40 .
As they became larger , they were less regular in their shape , and had , less of a circular form ; nor were they uniform , some appearing very large , with one or two smaller placed between them .
After having succeeded in this examination of the nerve transversely , an attempt was made to -investigate its structure in a longitudinal direction .
To do this , a portion of the nervous pulp had its coat , formed by the dura matter , along with a thin vascular membrane which lines it , carefully removed for about an inch in length : the external surface of the pulp was then examined with a magnifying glass ; the structure was evidently fasciculated , but the fasciculi did not run parallel to one anotfer ; they seemed to unite together and separate again , in such a manner that any one of them could not be traced for half an inch in length , without being lost in the neighbouring part .
When thin sections were examined in the field of the microscope , they put on the same appearance : this was equally the case , whether the part examined was near the centre or circumference of the nerve .
The fasciculi were largest in that part of the nerve near the brain , and smallest towards the eye .
Great pains were taken to ascertain whether the fasciculi were made up of continued fibres , or of small parts unconnected , which , fom their position , ge that appearace ; but every observation that was made was in proof of their being ontinued -fibres .
From these experiments , the internal structure of the optic nerve appears to be made up in the following manner : At its origin fromw the brain , it consists of thirty or forty -fasciculi or , bundles of extremely smallopaque pulpy fibres , the interstices between which are -filled with a transparent jelly .
: As the nerve goes farther from the brain , the fasciculi form smaller ' ones f differentsizes .
This is not done by a regular subdivision but by a few fibres going off laterally from several large fasciculi , and being united , forming a smaller one : , some of the fasciculi so formed , which are very small , unite again into one .
In this way , the fasciculi gradually diminish in size , and increase in number , till they terminate in the retina .
Near the eye , where the fasciculi are most numerous , the substance of the nerve has a considerable degree of transparency , from the number of transparent interstices between them ; but this is less the case nearer the brain , where the interstices are fewer .
In the optic nerve of the cat , the structure is the same as in the horse ; but , from the smallness of the parts , less fitted for investigation .
Near the eye , its internal substance is more transparent than the corresponding part in the horse .
To see how far this structure was peculiar to the optic nerve , similar experiments were made upon the internal substance of the fifth and seventh pair of nerves , near their origin at the brain , and the structure was found to be the same .
In these last mentioned nerves , tht interstices between the fasciculi were smaller than in the optic nerve , rendering their transverse C2O sections less transparent ; from which it is natural to suppose , , that the internal parts of the optic nerve are not so compact as in other nerves , and therefore it is better fitted for examination .
These experiments show , that the nerves do not consist of tubes conveying a fluid ) but of fibres of a peculiar kind , different from every thing else in the body , with which we are acquainted .
The course of these fibres is very curious ; they appear to be constantly passing from one fasciculus to another , so as to connect all the different fasciculi together by a mixture of fibres .
This is different from the course of blood-vessels , lymphatics , or muscular fibres : the only thing similar to it , is in the formation of nervous plexuses ; which leads to the idea of its answering an essential purpose , respecting the functions of the nerves .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. The Croonian Lecture .
Experiments and Observations upon the Structure of Nerves .
By EverardHome , Esq. F.e R. S. Read November 8 , 17 98 .
hAVING had the honour of laying before this -learned Society several Lectures on the actions of different parts of the organ of vision , the prosecution of the same inquiry has led to some observations on the internal structure of the optic nerve , which will be explained in the present Lecture .
On the first view , the structure of nerves may appear an improper subject ; but , when their offices and connection with muscles are maturely considered , any knowledge respecting them will be allowed an important acquisition towards the investigation of muscular motion .
In bringing forward an account of newly-acquired facts , the most natural , and therefore the most satisfactory method is , to begin with the circumstances which led to their detection .
This at present becomes the more proper , as the experiments which brought the subject of nervous structure under consi .
deration , were made upon the eye , and were in some measure connected with the observations contained in the former Lectures : they were instituted with a view to ascertain the cause of the luminous appearance frequently observed in the cat 's eye .
The illumination so conspicuous in the eye of the cat , and Of many other animals , when seen in an obscure light , has attracted the attention of every common observer .
Philosophers also have paid particular attention to it , and have endeavoured to investigate the caiise .
On this subject there ; havebeen two opinionsone , that the illumination arises from the external light collected in the eye , and reflected ; the other , that there is a quantity of light generated in the organ itself .
Professor BOHN , at Leipsick , made experiments which proved , that when the external light is wholly excluded , none can be seen in the cat 's eye .
These , experiments were , favourable : to the first opinion ; but the brightness of the illumination -is so-great , that it appeared to exceed any effect which could be .
produced through the medium of the retina ; so .
that some other source of light was thought necessary to account for the phenomenon : this circumstance gave support to the second opinion .
To determine which of the two opinions was just , several experiments were instituted under the direction of Mr. RAMSDEN , who likewise assisted in making them .
The truth of Professot BOHN 's experiments was readily ascertained ; it therefore oily became necessary to inquire- , whether the external light was of itself capable of producing so great a degree of illumination as that seen in the cat 's eye .
This was attended with difficulty ; for , when the apartment

