XII .
An anatomical Account of the Squalus maximus ( of Linnaeus ) , which in the Structure of its Stomach bfrms an intermediate Link in the Gradation of.nimals between the Whale Tribe and cartilaginous Fishes .
By Everard Home , Esq. F. R.S. Read May 1 , 1809 .
TH E fish from which the following account is taken , was entangled in the herring nets belonging to the fishermen of Hastings , off that coast , and about half-way across the Channel , on the night of the 13th of November , 18o8 .
It was brought ashore at Hastings on the following day , and my late worthy friend , Lieut. Col. BOTHWELL , who was on the spot , purchased it on my account .
On the 17th , Mr. CLIFT , the Conservator of the Hunterian Museum , at my desire , went to Hastings , and after making a drawing of the fish , examined its internal structure , and brought to London such parts as were most particularly deserving of notice .
The fish is a male , thirty feet six inches long from the anterior part of the head , to the longest extremity of the tail , and about nine feet from the extreme point of the dorsal fin to the middle line of the belly .
The skin is of a dirty blue , or light slate colour ; as rough as a new file in the direction from the tail to the head , but having a sattiny feel in the opposite direction .
On the belly the skin is white , thick , and very strong .
The mouth is about five feet from one angle to the other , There are six rows of teeth towards the middle of each side of the jaw ; but in the other parts they are less numerous .
The teeth are small , round , conical , very pointed , and bent a little inwards .
The nostrils open on the edge of the upper lip .
The eyes are very small , and the pupils perfectly round .
Half-way between the eye and the gills , on each side , is the orifice of a canal , which leads into the mouth , The gills are five in number on each side .
The pectoral fins are situated a little behind the posterior gills .
The dorsal fin is situated nearly opposite to the middle space , between the pectoral and anal fins .
The posterior dorsal fin is small , and situated half-way between the anal fins , and the setting on of the tail .
T'1he two anal fins are attached on their upper edgefor about half their extent each to the lower side of a Ionmg projecting body peculiar to the male .
All the fins have a thick round edge anteriorly , and become gradually thinnerr towards the posterior part , which is partially serrated .
The projecting bodies on the sides of the anus I shall call holders , as they are employed in grasping the female in the time of copulation .
They are rounded on their lower surface : the skin covering them is tancommonly thiin and ; :noot : .
: on their upper surface , it has a gloss ike that of silk , and there is a deep sulcus , in which is , contained a strong , flat , sharp , bony process , five inches long , which moves on a joint , and the bone projects an inch and a half beyond the skin , like a spur , * There is a deep sulcus at the setting on of the tail , as if a rope had been tied tight round that part , and on each side of the fish , there is a scabrous ridge extending from this sulcus as far forwards as the posterior dorsal fin .
The tail may be said to begin from this deep transverse sulcus ; it is vertical ; the upper portion is longest and narrowest .
The thin edge of the tail has a jagged appearance , as if formerly wounded by the bites of small fishes .
The proportions of these parts to each other will be seen in the annexed figure .
In this fish no part of the skeleton can be said to be perfectly formed bone , although the skull , which defends the brain , the upper and under jaws , and the vertebrae , contain bony matter ; the vertebra however in much the smallest proportion .
The skull has no cartilaginous attachment to the upper jaw , so that it is readily separated from it , while the jaws themselves are strongly connected by means of the joint between them .
The skull , when the jaws are removed , is very small , being adapted to the size of the brain , which in this fish bears a very small proportion to that of the whale tribe .
The vertebrae next the head are rather smaller than those a little further on .
The largest are seven inches in diameter , the cavities between them containing about three pints of fluid .
A particular account of the intervertebral joint in this fish has been already laid before the Society .
On the posterior part of the vertebrae , there is a sulcus , in which a strong elastic ligament passes from the head almost to the tail .
The canal for the spinal marrow is very small ; and on the anterior part of the vertebrxe , below the anus , there is a canal , in which is contained the aorta .
aoEach gill is supported on two cartilages , one long and flat connected with the spine , the other slort ; the re is a joint between them which admits of some degree of motion .
There are cartilages which answer the same purpose , as the sternumn and scapuls of quadrupeds .
Those resemnbling the scapule are colnected to the spine , and to them the cartilages of the pectoral fins are articulated .
The broad part of the pectoral fin is formed of a number of cartilaginous finger-like processes .
The termiziations of which are enclosed between two sets of ligamentous fibres , that form the thin margin of the fin .
The other fins and tail are formed in the same manner , and are also connected with the spine .
There is an imperfectly formed pelvis , connected to the spine by strong ligaments and muscles .
The cartilages of the holders are united to the pelvis ; they correspond in number and general appearance to a femur , tibia , and three toes .
This part has been frequently mistaken by superficial observers for the leg and foot , to which it bears a very general resemblance .
The heart is not much larger than that of a bullock : the auricle is extremely thin in its coats .
The valves at the origin of the pulmonary artery , are three in number ; besides which there are three sets of valves in the course of the artery , at a short distance from each other .
Each set is composed of three valves .
They are weaker than those at the origin of the artery , and they are attached by tendinous chords to the inside of that vessel .
The tongue is flat , and can hardly be said to have any part of it loose and pendulous .
009 The oesophagus is about a foot in length : its internal surface is milk white and polished , having a number of conical papilla projecting into the canal .
These become gradually longer towards the stomach ; they all point downwards , and the lower ones have a fringed appearance , which is shown in the figure .
The stomach , from its weight , could not be removed till emptied of its contents , which consisted of several pails full of pebbles , a quantity of mucus , and a small portion of a substance , which proves to be the spawn of a univalve .
The appearance of the internal structure of the stomach , and the dimensions of its different parts are shown in the drawing .
Besides the cardiac and pyloric portions , as in other sharks , there is a globular cavity , with which the pyloric portion communicates by a very small orifice , and there is another orifice nearly of the same size , between this cavity and the intestine .
The upper part of the duodenum is smooth , and the gall ducts open into it by a long nipple-like projection , and just below this the spiral valve has its origin , as in other sharks .
The valvular intestine , from the closeness of the turns of the valvular part , is so firm and compact , that when placed on its end , it stood upright like a cask .
It is about four feet long , and ten inches in diameter , terminating at its lower end in the appearance of a rose , which is so remarkable , that it is represented in the annexed figure .
Below this the rectum begins , which in this instance was two feet long .
Behind the rectum , and loosely attached to the spine , is an oval bag , the coats of which are very strong : its internal membrane is reticulated , forming very deep folds , and there is a long narrow duct leading from its cavity into the rectum .
This bladder 12 10 contains a dark-coloured glary fluid , and this is common to the shark tribe , but the use of such a secretion is not at present known .
The spleen in all respects resembles that of the blue shark formerly described .
The pancreas is situated in the angle between the pylorus and duodenum .
It was so much broken , that its shape could not be ascertained ; but its substance is composed of a soft whitish mass , intermixed with roundish bodies of a firmer texture .
The liver consists of two lobes nearly equal in size .
They occupy the anterior part of the belly , from below the gills to the rectum .
It yielded about three hogsheads of oil .
No gall-bladder was discovered ; and as a chord ( like a navel string ) consisting of twelve hepatic ducts passed from the liver to the duodenum , there is reason to believe that this fish has no gall-bladder .
There is none in the piked whale .
On cutting into the liver , the blood-vessels were found to be so large , that they readily admitted a man 's arm , and on pulling them the substance of the liver was readily torn in the direction of the smaller branches , which went off at right angles to the central trunk , as regularly as those of the gills , The kidnies are long narrow bodies , lying on each side of the spine , and extending along the whole length of the abdomen .
The ureters run along their inner edge , and terminate in an oval cavity just within the verge of the anus , which has an imperfect septum separating it into two parts , the ureters opening on the opposite sides of this septum , this cavity must therefore be considered as the urinary bladder .
The testicles are situated immediately behind the origin of 21l1 the two lobes of the liver .
They are oval , flattened , pulpy bodies .
The epididymis nearly surrounds the testicle , and then forms the vas deferens , which makes many close turns upon itself , and passes downwards , adhering to the anterior surface of the kidney , in which it is in some measure embedded : the lowest part of the vas deferens , for three feet in length , becomes very large , and has no convolutions .
The vasa deferentia contained a substance like thin starch , broken down into small rounded portions , mixed with a thinner fluid .
These ducts were so large , as readily to allow a man 's arm to be introduced up to the shoulder .
Each vas deferens terminates by a small contracted orifice in the urinary bladder , one on each side , so that this bladder is both a reservoir for the urine and semen .
The bladder in the male opens externally by an infundibular process , which constitutes the penis .
On each side of the anus , within its verge , near the root of the penis , is an oblique aperture , communicating freely with the cavity of the abdomen .
From the account which has been given , the Squalus maximus appears in many respects to be similar in its structure to the shark , but it differs essentially from it in the form of the stomach , and in that respect forms an intermediate link between the shark and whale .
It probably lives on nearly the same kilnds of food as the whale , The sharks form a tribe of such extent , that from what we already know of their internal structure , they may be subdivided into many genera , making with the rays and scates , so many links between the whales and fishes , properly so called .
The stomach and organs of generation are the parts in which the structures are most essentially different .
In the dog-fish , the stomach in its form is neither like that of the Squalus maximus , nor blue shark .
I have given a drawing of it , as it appears to form a link between the two .
The structure of the ovum , and the mode of hatching it is very difflrent in the dog-fish from that of many other sharks ; as I have had opportunities of investigating the mode of generation in that species , I shall make it the subject of a future communication .
I cannot close the present paper without mentioning , that nearly about the same period , two other Squali of large dimensions were thrown upon our coast .
The probable cause of this event , is the season being uncommonly boisterous and tempestuous .
On the gd of January , 1809 , a fish was thrown ashore at Penrhyn , in Cornwall .
On hearing of it from a person on the spot : , I sent down a drawing of the subject of this paper to compare with it , and the fish proves to be of the same species , and a male , measuring thirty-one feet in length .
The other was thrown ashore on the 7th of October , 1808 , at Rothiesholm , an estate of GILBERT MEASON , Esq. in Stronsay , one of the Orkney isles .
It had been seen lying on some sunken rocks , eleven days before , was in a half putrid state , and the sea fowl were in great numbers feeding upon it .
Those who saw it , reported that the skin was rough in one direction , and smooth like satin in the other .
At the time of its being examined , the skin and a great many other parts of the fish were wanting .
Mr. MEASON , with a zeal for science which does him infinite credit , upon hearing the strange accounts which were giv n of this sea monster , got his brother , MALCOLM LAING , Esq , and Dr. GRANT , an eminent physician ( both justices of the peace ) , to take depositions on the spot , from those persons who had seen the fish , that its real appearance might be ascertained .
This examination , however , did not take place till six weeks after the fish was throvwn ashore .
These depositions were sent to Sir JOSEPH BANKS , who put them into my hands.* I also received , a short time after , from my friend Mr. LAING , in consequence of a request I made for that purpose , that part of the skull , which contained the brain , the upper jaw having been separated from it , a considerable number of the vertebrae of the back united together by their natural attachments , a portion of one of the pectoral fins , with the cartilages that unite it to the spine , and a long and short cartilage forming the support of one of the gills .
On conmparing these different parts , with those of the Squalus'maximus , they were found to agree , not only in their formm , but also in their dimensions .
This led to the opinion of the fish being a Squalus , a very different one from what was formed by those who saw it in the mutilated state in which it was thrown ashore , and who called it a sea snake .
In the different depositions , several parts are accurately described , such as the valvular intestine , which was taken for the stomach , and the bristles of the mane , which are described as ligamentous fibres : one of them is in my possession , and is of the same kind with the fibres forming the margin of the fins of the Squalus maximus .
The drawing that was made from memory , and which I have annexed , will enable me in a few words to point out how much , in some things , those who saw the fish adhered to truth , and in others allowed their imaginations to supply deficiencies , for one of them declared , with confidence , that the drawing was so exact a representation of what he had seen , that he fancied he saw the beast lying before him , at a dis " tance , on the beach .
" The drawing is correct in the representation of the iead and anterior part of the fish , from which the skin , the upper and lower jaw , the gills , and gullet , had been separated by putrefaction ; and when we consider that the liver and the other viscera were all destroyed , except the valvular intestine , which was taken away by the observers , the size of the body that remained would be nearly in proportion with the drawing .
The legs are tolerably exact representations of the holders in the male Squalus maximus , described in a former part of this paper , and therefore are not imaginary , only that four have been added which did not exist .
This is satisfactorily determined by the pectoral fin , which is preserved , having no resemblance to them .
The mane , they said , was composed of ligamentous fibres , one of which was sent to London ; this corresponds , in its appearance , with the fibres that form the termination of the fins and tail of the Squalus maximus , such an appearance therefore was seen , but could only be met with in the place of the two dorsal fins , instead of being continued along the back , as in the drawing .
The contortions towards the tail are such , as the intervertebral joints could not admit of , they are therefore imaginary .
It is said , two different persons measured the fish ; one by fathoms , the other by a foot rule , and that it was fifty-five feet long .
T'heir accuracy is at least doubtful , as the parts that are preserved correspond with those of a fish about Ffa 335 thirty feet long , and it is rendered still more so , as the person who gives the length in fathoms , says , he saw at that time the six legs , the two foremost being larger than the hinder ones , and the lowerjoint more rounded from the body to the toes .
The pectoral fin , which is preserved , proves this declaration to be incorrect : the person who measured the fish with a foot rule , declares the length , from the hole in the head to the beginning of the mane , to be exactly fifteen feet , which is probably correct , since a Squalus of about thirty-six feet long would measure , from the fore part of the skull to the dorsal fin , about fifteen feet ; but the other measurement must be questionable .
It is deserving of remark , that there is no one structure represented in this drawing , which was not actually seen .
The skeleton of the holders corresponds with the legs in the drawing , the margin of the dorsal fin in a putrid state with the mane ; so that the only errors are in the contortions towards the tail , the length of the fish , and the number of the holders , which were mistaken for legs:* and when we recollect that the drawing was made from memory six weeks after the fish had been seen by those , who describe it , during which interval it had been their principal subject of conversation , we may conclude that so extraordinary an object , as the mutilated fish must appear when believed to be a perfect one , would , in their different discourses , have every part exagge* This mistake of the holders of the male shark for legs , has been frequently made .
There is a drawing in Sir JOSEPH BANKS'S library , sent from Ireland , in which the fish is represented walking like a duck , with broad webbed feet .
The skin of a male Squalus maximus was exhibited in London some years ago distended by means of hoops , and the holders were shown as its legs , on which it occasionally walked .
slrated , and it is only remarkable that the depositions kept so close to the truth as they have done .
It is of importance to science , that it should be ascertained , that this fish is not a new animal unlike any of the ordinary productions of nature , and we are indebted to the zeal and liberality of Mr. MEASON and Mr. LAING , who have collected a sufficient body of evidence to enable me to determine that point , and prove it to be a Squalus , and the orifice behind the eye , which communicates with the mouth met with in the skull , renders it very probable that it is a Squalus maximus .
This opinion is further confirmed by the Squalus maximus , known by the name of the basking shark , being frequently seen upon the coast of Scotland .
That a fish so common in the northern seas , containing a large quantity of oil , should have been so rarely caught , and indeed that it should not , as well as the whale , become an object of the Greenland fishery , appears , on the first view , not easily accounted for ; but Sir JOSEPH BANKS has thrown out a suggestion which satisfactorily explains it .
The whale , when struck , descends towards the bottom of the sea , but is soon obliged to rise to the surface to breathe , which enables the fishermen to follow , and prevent the breaking of their line ; but the Squalus maximus , as it breathes water , has no occasion to return to the surface , and will always carry off the line .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE VI .
Fig. i. An engraving of the Squalus maximus caught at Hastings in 1808 .
217 a. A projecting body peculiar to the male .
There is a pair of these , by means of which the female is held in the act of copulation .
Fig. 2 .
An exact copy of the drawing sent up to Sir JOSEPT BANKs from the Orkneys , of a Squalus in a mutilated state , without the skin or viscera , thrown ashore upon that coast , which being mistaken for a perfect animal , unlike any thing at present known , it was supposed to be a sea snake .
a. The skull , from which the upper and lower jaw had bben separated by putrefaction .
b. The orbit .
c c. The spine of the fish surrounded by muscles , the gills and gullet having been separated by putrefaction .
dd .
The dorsal fin , which in a half putrid state puts on a shaggy appearance , the ligamentous fibres of which the broad part is composed being separated from one another ; this was mistaken for a mane , and , from want of accurate observation , was continued on to the tail , although it could only be seen in the situation of the two dorsal fins .
e e , e e , e e. The holders of the male , which are represented with tolerable accuracy as they appear in a half putrid state , but two only are met with in nature in the situation in which they are seen in Fig. i , there they have a different appearance , the internal parts being concealed by the common integuments .
fff .
Contortions which the structure of the intervertebral substance of the fish rendered it impossible for the spine to make , and therefore could not have been seen .
These contortions so represented , render it highly probable that the account of PONTOPPIDAN'S sea snake had been read by the spectators of this fish , in the interval of time between their seeing it and their depositions being taken .
PLATE VII .
The stomach of the Squalus maximus laid open to show the appearance of its internal structure .
a. The internal membrane of the oesophagus exposed to view .
b. The termination of the oesophagus in the stomach by a loose kind of fringe .
cc .
The cardiac portion of the stomach , the upper part of which is slightly honey-combed ; the lower having more of a rugous , or plicated appearance .
dd .
The pyloric portion , the coats of which are very strong , and the internal rugme very thick .
The opening at the pylorus is very small , as in the whale tribe .
e e. The external surface of the valvular intestine .
f. The ducts of the liver passing down in the form of a broad band to the duodenum .
ggg .
The spleen .
PLATE VIII .
Fig. 1 .
Shows the internal surface of a small cavity interposed between the pyloric portion of the stomach and the intestine .
a a. The external surface of the pyloric portion of the stomach .
b. The cavity , with which it communicates , laid open , exposing the small opening between them , and another opening leading to the intestine .
The cavity of the intestine before the valvular structure begins .
d. The orifice leading into it from the cavity next the sto.mach .
e. The opening of the ducts from the liver .
f. The valvular portion of the intestine .
g. A portion of the spleen .
h h. The ducts passing from the liver .
Fig. 2 .
The termination of the valvular portion of the intestine in a rose-like form ; by means of this structure the aliment is prevented from too readily making its escape .
PLATE IX .
The stomach of the common dog-fish laid open , to show the difference of its internal structure from that of the Squalus maximus , and also the difference between it and that of the common shark .
a. The internal membrane of the oesophagus .
b. The termination of the oesophagus .
cc .
The cardiac portion of the stomach , the superior part of which is plicated , and the inferior slightly honey-combed , the very reverse of what is met with in the Squalus maximus .
d. The pyloric portion .
e. The pylorus , f. A small space between the pylorus and the intestine , bearing a faint resemblance to the cavity in the Squalus maximus , but so slight , as only to be detected when the fish is in a very recent state .
g. The beginning of the intestine .
h. The valvular portion .
210 -Pr ilos .
7rg.-fN DIDCCCIX.rate VIp .
220 .
IIIiI II ; I iiIIi I , i I. !
i i , i/ t24 tydir , % ?
-^/ t9o Xt:** 5o 5 Fe , t. II Scale , tfa art ITnch/ to cz aFot .

