I1 .
0"^th e Structure and Uses of the Spleen .
By Everard Home , Esq. F. R. S. Read November 26 , 1807 .
IN : bringing forward a act of so much importance , as a communication between the cardiac portion of the stomach and the circulation of the blood , through the medium of the spleen , :I shall:not take up the time of the Society by offering any preliminary observations , but state the circumstances which led to the discovery , and the experiments by which the different facts have been ascertained .
During the investigation of the functions of the stomach , ( in which I have been lately engaged , ) it was found that while digestion is going on , there is a separation between the cardiac and pyloric portions , either by means of a permanent or muscular contraction .
This fact placed the process of digestion in a new light , and led me to consider in what way the quantities of different liquors , which are so often taken into the stomach , can be prevented from being mixed with the half digested food , and interfering with the formation of chyle .
Pursuing this enquiry , I found that the fluids are principally contained in the cardiac portion , and the food that has reached the pyloric portion is usually of one uniform consistence , so that the fluids beyond what are necessary for digestion would appear to be carried out of the stomach , without ever reaching so far as the pylorus .
To ascertain the truth of this opinion:ismthe object of the present Paper .
The lymphatic vessels of the stomach are numerous , but they are equally or more so in the other viscera .
Many circumstances appeared to render it probable that the spleen is the route by which liquids are conveyed .
The more I considered the subject , new reasons in favour of this opinion crowded on my mind , so as almost to enforce conviction , and made me set about devising various methods , by which its truth or falsehood might be established .
The first point to be decided was , whether the liquids ?
received into the stomach do escape in any considerable iiantity , when prevented from passing out at the pylorus .
1 : This was ascertained by the following experiment , made October 31 , 1807 , with the assistance of Mr. BRODIE , Mr. -W .
BRAND , and Mr. CLIFT .
: : The pylorus of a small dog was secured by a ligature , and a ' few minutes afterwards five ounces by measure , of an infusion of indigo in water , of the temperature of the atmosphere , were injected by the mouth into the stomach .
At the en 'd of half an hour the dog became sick , and brought up by 'vmiting 2 ounces of a nearly colourless fluid .
The dog was immediately killed , and the different parts were examined .
The pylorus was found completely secured by the ligature , so that nothing could pass in that direction The pyloric porition of the stomach was found empty and contracted ; the cardiac portion contained about two ounces of solid contents , enveloped in a gelatinous substance , and one ounce of water with little or no colour , the indigo being completely separated from it , and spread over the surface of the internal membrane .
Of the five ounces of water thrown into the stomach , two were brought up by vomiting , and one only remained ; two ounces had therefore escaped in the course of half an hour .
As the stomach contained two ounces of solid food.at the time the experiment was made , it is reasonable to suppose that there was also some liquid in it , and in this case the whole quantity that escaped must have exceeded two ounces .
On examining the external covering of the stomach , and along the course of the vasa brevia , where the absorbents usually pass , none were discovered , so that these vessels were not:at that time carrying any liquid .
The spleen was turgid , unusually large , and its external surface very irregular ; when cut into , small cells were every where met with containing a watery fluid , and occupying a considerable portion of its substance .
This appearance , which I had never seen before , made me enquire , if it had been taken notice of by others , and endeavour to ascertain the circum- .
stances under which it is produced .
The following statement contains the information which I have received on this subject .
MALPIGHI appears to be the first anatomist , who had any particular knowledge of the structure of the spleen .
He describes its capsule , and a network which pervades every part of the substance .
He mentions a number of small glands , which are hollow , and surrounded by arterial zones , but he had never been able to trace any venal branches into them .
He believed that there was a cellular structure in the spleen containing red blood , interposed between the arteries and veins ; this led him to adopt a theory that the network was muscular , and by 47 its action propelled the blood , so that there was a systole and diastole in the spleen , as in the heart .
STUKELY , in his Gulstonian lecture , has very closely copied MALPtGHI , without giving any additional information .
CuviER , the latest writer on this subject , in his Lefons d'natomie cozmparee , corrects the error of MALPIGHI respecting the nature of the network , which he states to be composed of elastic ligament , and says that there are sxall corpuscles , whose use is unknown , and which disappear when the blood vessels are minutely injected .
In the course of the present investigation , I have examined the spleen after death , under the ordinary crecumstances , and have found the appearances described by Cuv1Ea .
I have also examined it frequently immediately afr:the smach had received unusual quantities of liquids , and i that state have found invariably , that the corpuscles of Cuvr E , which were the glands of MALPrGHI , are distinct cells , containin a fluid , which escapes when the cells are punctuted , and renders their membranous coat visible , so that it would appear that the distension of these cells is connected with the state of the stomach , and therefore only takes place occasionally ; and that the elastic-capsule by which the spleen is surrounded adapts the organ to these changes in its volume .
On examining further into the structure of the spleen , in which I have been materially assisted by Mr. BRODIE , the following facts have been ascertained .
In the spleen of the bullock , horse , and hog , the cells , when the arteries and veins are injected with coloured size , are seen to have numerous arterial branches ratnifying in their coats , 4 .
bhutnoyvenal ones hwbich confirms the statement of MALPIGHI ; and when the cells are empty and contracted , and the bloodvessels filled a reat degree of minuteness , the appearance of cels is entirely lost , as stated by CUVIER .
When the cells were in a distended state , their cavities in a great many instances were very distinct , having been laid open in making a section of the spleen .
The intermediate parts of the spleen are but sparingly supplied with arterial branches , and the smaller ones do not appear to have any particular distribution .
When the veins only are injected their branches appear more numerous , and larger than those of the arteries , making the whole substance of the spleen of a red colour .
They appear to arise from the outside of the cells going off at right angles to their circumference , like radii .
Where the injection has not been very minute , they are seen to arise at so many points of the capsule ; but where the injection has got into smaller branches , their number is so much increased that they appear to form plexuses round the cells .
The trunk of the splenic vein , compared with that of the artery , when both are filled with wax , is found to be in the proportion of five to one in its size .
This was ascertained both by an accurate measurement of their diameters , and by weighing half an inch in length of each in a very nice balance ; the disproportion between them is greater , than between corresponding veins and arteries , in other parts of the body .
Having acquired this knowledge of the internal structure of the spleen , I made the following experiment with a decoction of madder .
This substance was employed , from the animals who feed on it having their bones tinged red , so that there can be no doubt of its colouring matter being carried into the circulation of the blood .
I was much disappointed on seeing the colour of the decoction , which , instead of being a bright red ( the tinge communicated to the bones ) , was of a dirty brown .
The same gentlemen assisted me , as in the former experiment .
Nov. 8 , 1807 , seven ounces of a strong decoction of madder were injected into the stomach of a dog , immediately after the pylorus had been secured .
At this time the dog voided some urine , which was limpid and colourless .
In 42 minutes , 2 ounces of a yellowish fluid were brought up by vomiting .
In 18 minutes more the dog vomited again ; what came up proved to consist of 32 ounces of solid matter , and 3 ounces of liquid .
In 15 minutes afterwards , 5 ounces of the decoction were injected , which remained quietly on the stomach for two hours and a quarter , at the end of which period the dog was killed .
In the act of dying he made water , in the quantity of two ounces , of a dark muddy colour .
This was saved , and afterwards compared with the remaining liquid in the stomach , which it exactly resembled .
On examining the connections between the stomach and spleen , none of the absorbent vessels were apparent , more than in the former experiment .
The pyloric portion of the stomach contained about two ounces of half digested food , but no liquid .
The cardiac portion contained four ounces of liquid , and half an ounce of solid food , so that the act of vomiting , which appeared , at the time , a sufficient exertion to have completely emptied the stomach , had brought up no part of the contents of the pyloric portion , and had not even completely emptied the cardiac portion .
In this experiment , without making allowance for any liquid in the stomach , prior to the decoction of madder being injected , one-fourth part of the quantity thrown in had escaped .
The cells of the spleen were more distinctly seen than in the former experiment , particularly at the great end .
Although there was every reason to believe that the colouring matter of the madder had been conveyed into the urinary bladder , yet so muddy and indistinct was the colour , that it was by no means completely ascertained .
I therefore resolved in my future experiments , to make use of some colouring substance , the presence of which could be detected in a very diluted state , by means of a chemical test ; and I requested Mr. W. BRAND , of whose assistance I have before availed myself , to point out the substances best fitted for this purpose .
He immediately suggested that rhubarb was a substance which he had made use of as a test to ascertain the presence of alkali , and therefore had no doubt that the caustic alkali would prove a test of rhubarb .
This substance has also another advantage ; it is well known to pass very readily by the kidneys , without being decomposed .
The following are the results of experiments made with rhubarb , to ascertain the best modes of detecting it in the urine and blood , and the time it takes to pass from the stomach to the urinary bladder .
Five drops of tincture of rhubarb added to g ounces of water , are found to strike an orange tint when the test is added , which does not take place when the rhubarb is more diluted .
Six drops of tincture of rhubarb , added to three ounces of serum , are readily detected by the eye , but the colour is not heightened by applying the test ; the alkali contained in the serum , being sufficient to strike as bright a tint , as that quantity of rhubarb can receive from the addition of alkali .
When tincture of rhubarb is mixed with blood just taken from the arm , its colouring matter is afterwards found both in the serum and in the coagulum .
When blood is drawn from the arm of a person , who has taken rhubarb in sufficient quantity to affect the urine , the serum is found to have a slight tinge from it , equal to that , which one drop of tincture of rhubarb gives to half an ounce of serum when added to it .
Half an ounce of tincture of rhubarb , diluted in iounce of water , taken in the interval between meals , did not pass off by urine in less than an hour , and even then was not in sufficient quantity to be discovered , till the test was applied .
The same quantity was taken immediately before a breakfast consisting of tea .
In 17 minutes , half an ounce of urine was voided , which when tested had a light tinge .
In 3o minutes another half ounce was made , in which the tinge was stronger ; and in 41 minutes athird half ounce was made , in which it was very deep .
In an hour and ten minutes 7 ounces were voided , in which the tinge of rhubarb was very weak , and in two hours twelve ounces were voided , in which it was hardly perceptible .
In 6hours the rhubarb acted on the bowels , and gave a decided tinge to the facces ; the urine made at the same time had a much stronger tinge , than what was voided at one hour and ten minutes .
In this experiment , the rhubarb appeared to have escaped from the cardiac portion of the stomach ; and in two hours ceased to pass through that channel ; but was afterwards carried into the system from the intestines , and again appeared in the urine .
3S This experiment was repeated on another person ; the rhubarb was detected in the urine in o2 minutes .
In 2 hours the tinge became very faint ; in 5 hours it was scarcely perceptible : in seven Ihours the rhubarb acted on the bowels ; and the urine made after that period , became again as highly tinged as at first .
It was suggested by a chemical friend , that the prussiate of potash might be a better substance than rlhubarb , for the present experiments , since the solution of one quarter of a grain in two ounces of water , becomes of a blue colour on the addition of the acidulous muriate of iron .
To determine this point , one quarter of a grain was dissolved in two ounces of serrnm , but no blue colour was produced by the addition of the test , nor did this effect take place till the quantity of the prussiate was increased to a grain ; so that minute quantities of the prussiate of potash , or at least of the prussic acid , may exist in the blood , without being detected by adding solution of iron .
The effects of rhubarb on the urine , and the different parts of the blood having been thus ascertained , a third experiment was made , in which that substance was employed , and I had the assistance of the same gentlemen as in the others .
On November 17 , 18o7 , at 35 minutes past i o'clock , five dramos of a mixture of tincture of rhubarb and bwater , in the proportion of a dram : to an : ounce ; were injected into the stomach of a dog , whose pylorus was secured .
At 2o minutes past r , two ounces of fluid were brought up by vomiting ten minutes afterwards , another ounce of the mixture was in iected , as were nine drams more at past 4 o'clock .
The two last portions were retained , and at 8 o'clock in the evening the dog kvas killed .
On examining the parts after death , the pylorus was bound to be completely secured ; the stomach contained about two ounces of fluid ; none of the absorbent vessels passing from its great curvature were in a distended state so as to be rendered visible .
The spleen was turgid as in the former experiment , and the urinary bladder full of urine .
This urine tested by the alkali , received a deeper tinge of rhubarb than the human urine , after rhubarb had been taken three hours by the mouth , and in other respects resembled it .
When the spleen was cut into , the cells were particularly large and distinct .
A portion of it was then macerated in two drams of water for ten minutes in a glass vial .
All the parts were exposed to the water , by its being divided in all directions .
The water thus impregnated was strained off and tested by the alkali , and immediately the reddish brown colour was produced in the centre , and no where:else , but in less than a minute it began to diffuse itself , and extended over the whole .
A similar portion of the liver was treated in : the same way , and the alkali was added to the strained liquor , but no change took place in it whatever .
In this experiment the rhubarb was detected in the juices of the spleen as well as in the urine ; and as there was no appearance of it in the liver , it could not have arrived there through the medium of the common absorbents carrying it into the thoracic duct , and afterwards into the circulation of the blood .
The discovery of this fact I consider to be of sufficient importance to be announced to the Society , that when it is thus made public , I may be at liberty more openly , and on a more extensive scale of experiments , to prosecute the enquiry .
54

