XXVII .
Additions to an Account of the Anatomy of the Squalus Maximus , contained in a former Paper ; with Observations on the Structure of the Branchial Artery .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. F. R. S. Read June 14 , i813 .
NMY former account was taken from a Squalus Maximus caught at Hastings , in November , 1808 , and the parts which I examined were brought to London by Mr. CLIFT , who went down , at my desire , to dissect them ; but the weather being stormy and cold , the fish was brought no further than the beach , so that the examination was conducted under great disadvantages , and the parts brought away were in a mutilated state .
The sketch of the fish made upon the spot by Mr. CLIFT is now found to be generally correct , except the omission of a small fin between the anus and tail , which had been buried by the weight of the fish in the sand.* Two fishes of the same species have since been caught at Brighton , and one of them was brought to London in December , i81 , which I had an opportunity of examining , assisted by Mr. CLIFT .
It is not my intention , on the present occasion , to enter into minutiae , but to render my former account more complete , and apply the dissection of this large fish to its proper use in comparative anatomy , which is , by means of it , to illustrate the functions of the organs of fishes of an ordinary size .
In addition to my former description of the fins , I have now annexed a drawing ( P1 .
XVI .
) which shows the structure of the pectoral fin , a beautiful example of the mechanism of the fins of cartilaginous fishes in general .
The stomach was examined in its entire state , and the annexed drawing ( P1 .
XVII .
) is an accurate representation of the appearance of its internal surface , which is exposed in one view , showing that the pyloric portion is longer and narrower than'I had before represented it .
The situation of the pancreas is correctly noticed in my formerspaper ; the gland is oblong , thick and round where it is attached to the duodenum , and becoming thin , flat , and bifid towards its loose extremity .
The ducts of the liver are six in number , and enclosed in a broad flat band , which passes obliquely down before the stomach , till it is connected to the duodenum ; each of the ducts opens , by a separate oblique orifice , into a common cavity of an oval form , from which there is a direct opening into the duodenum .
This swell or enlargement might be considered as a substitute for the gall-bladder , which is wanting , were it not that a similar enlargement is also met with in fishes which have one .
In the cod there is the same dilatation , and the hepatic ducts open into it in the same oblique manner ; but there is also a gall-bladder , and the cystic duct , as well as the others , terminates in this dilatation .
The oblique openings of the hepatic ducts in the Squalus 998 Maximus , being so different from those of quadrupeds , explain the general principle on which the hepatic ducts in fishes , whose livers are loaded with oil , are formed .
The substance of their 'liver is so exceedingly tender , that this contrivance is employed to prevent the bile from being forced back into the liver , which is not found necessary in the solid livers of land animals .
The heart was particularly examined , and the annexed drawing ( P1 .
XVIII .
) shows its internal cavities , and the valves of the branchial artery ; more particularly a muscular structure met with in the coats of that vessel , extending for some way after it leaves the ventricle .
The situation of the kidneys is mentioned in my former account ; the ureters open into the cavity , common to the urine and semen , by two orifices , three quarters of an inch in diameter .
The structure of the body of the testicles had been destroyed ; the epididymis consisted of innumerable convolutions of a tube three-eighths of an inch in diameter , at the upper part coiled up into two or three lobes or masses , which could not be unravelled , from which the vas deferens went off , making irregular convolutions down towards the anus .
The lower part for three feet in length is straight , and the canal seven inches in diameter , having broad valvulae conniventes ; the widest are near the termination , and are two inches and a half broad .
The contents of this portion , as I have remarked in my former paper , are different from those of the epididymis , and upper portion of the vas deferens , being a substance like starch broken down into rounded portions in a thinner fluid .
This circumstance leads to the idea , that the straight portion Hh2 22G of the vas deferens is analogous to the vesicula3 seminales of other animals , secreting its own fluid with which the semen is to be mixed before it enters the penis , and the valvula conniventes form a surface from which this secretion probably takes place .
It is deserving of observation , that the epididymis and vas deferens were loaded with semen , which there is reason to believe is not the case in quadrupeds , unless immediately previous to the act of copulation ; but in fishes , where the connexion between the sexes is less complete , the semen appears to be prepared at a more early period .
The openings from the vasa deferentia are situated on each side , four inches higher up than those of the ureters , rounded in form , and kept closed by the pressure of two oviform ligamentous substances ; these openings readily admit of dilatation , so that the hand can pass into them .
The penis has an infundibular form , and terminates by an oblique aperture about three inches in circumference .
The holders correspond with those of the dog-fish , which upon another occasion have been described to the Society ; the spur bears a striking resemblance to that of the male ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
There is a canal in each holder communicating with a corresponding cavity between the skin and muscles of the abdomen , eleven feet long and two wide .
The inner surface of this cavity is smooth , almost polished , and of a beautiful white colour ; it contained a white mucus , extremely viscid and tenacious .
Opportunities of examining the brain of a fish of such magnitude are of rare occurrence ; I have therefore not only given drawings of the brain , ( P1 .
XIX , XX .
) but also one ~3 ?
of the brain of a Squalus Acanthias , ( P1 .
XXI .
) that the two may be compared together , with a view to show the relative size of the parts , one belonging to a shark of thirty feet , the other to one of three feet long .
In the brains of what we consider the animals of greatest intelligence , there is a cerebrum , cerebellum , and medulla oblongata ; beneath the cerebrum there are the tubercula quadrigemina .
In fishes , the cerebrum is wanting , and there is no part at all analogous to it , unless we consider the enlargements , from which the olfactory nerves arise , to be of that description .
These enlargements are separated from the other parts of the brain by the optic nerves going off in a transverse line between them and the tubercula quadrigemina .
In the present specimen , unfortunately , not only the enlargements from which the olfactory nerves go off , were destroyed ; but also a portion of each of the anterior tubercula quadrigemina : the cerebellum was , however , entire , and is represented of the natural size .
The brain does not occupy more than one-third of the cranium .
The medulla spinalis is large in proportion to the brain .
From the termination of what corresponds to the calamus scriptorius in the human brain , a fissure extends on the upper part of the medulla spinalis , dividing it longitudinally into two portions ; there is a similar fissure on the anterior surface ; into both of these a thin fold of pia matter extends and adheres with firmness to the surfaces with which it comes in contact .
The dura matter is very dense , and adheres firmly to the inner surface of the cranium and theca vertebralis .
The pia matter nearly resembles that of the human brain ; it becomes thicker where it covers the spinal marrow .
The space between the dura and pia matter is occupied by a cellular membrane of a very fine texture .
As the different parts of the brain are described in the explanation of the drawing , I shall only remark in this place , that the circumstance most deserving of observation respecting it is , that the cerebellum has an increase of size in the Squalus Maximus in a much greater degree beyond that of the Squalus Acanthias than the tubercula quadrigemina .
The protuberances from which the olfactory nerves arise were probably large in the same proportion with the tubercula ; at least , in the brain of a shark , preserved in the Hunterian Collection , of a smaller size than that of the Squalus Maximus , but much larger than that of the Squalus Acanthias , that is the case .
The eye is small for the size of the fish ; the ball has projections on the sclerotic coat , where the muscles are attached , which make it approach to a quadrangular form ; but its internal cavity is circular .
The circumference in the widest part is nine inches .
The longest diameter three inches , the shortest one inch and three quarters .
The sclerotic coat is cartilaginous , one quarter of an inch thick on the posterior part , becoming thinner towards the ciliary processes , where it is only one-sixteenth of an inch .
The cornea is thin , but made up distinctly of three layers , of which the middle one is by much the thinnest .
The optic nerve is nearly of the size of the sixth pair , and , where it perforates the sclerotic coat , projects a little before it gives off the retina , which is extremely thin .
The choroid coat is covered with a tapetum lucidum of the 23 ' 2 colour of an amalgam of silver broken into small portions .
There are ciliary processes , not common to fishes in general ; they are about one-third of an inch in extent , and slightly projecting ; they are lined with a black pigment .
The vitreous humxour is unattached to the choroid coat ; it is enclosed in strong cells , and the crystalline lens , which is spherical and one inch in diameter , is imbedded in it for twothirds of its substance .
In the Tetrodon Mola , which , as well as the Squalus Maximus , in common language has been called the Sun-fish , the vitreous humour has a firm attachment to a groove in the choroid coat one-twelfth of.an inch in breadth , extending from the entrance of the optic nerve to the termination of the retina , in the shortest line from the one to the other , and there are no ciliary processes ; two such remarkable differences in eyes of nearly the same size , appeared to be deserving of being noticed .
The cartilage upon which the ball of the eye rests is attached to the bottom of the orbit , and is seven inches and a half long ; its stem is a flattened cylinder , five-eighths of an inch in diameter ; it terminates in a broad concave surface in a:transverse direction adapted to the bottom:of the ball of the eye , and is connected to the sclerotic coat by a ligament long enough to admit of motion .
There are four straight and two oblique muscles ; the straight very large , much beyond what can be required merely to mrove so small an eye : the rectus internus and externus are strongest , they are five inches in circumference , while the superior and interior are only three and a half .
In the structure of the ear , the only remarkable circumstance is the great capacity of the cavities in which the semicircular canals are contained , the canals themselves not being much larger than in the skate .
They are shown in the drawing .
In the recent subject they were pellucid , containing a transparent fluid .
On the Structure of the Branchial Artery .
The muscular structure of the branchial artery of the dogfish , and the direction in which that artery leaves the ventricle , are exactly the same as in the Squalus Maximus , only are seen upon so small a scale , that they do not arrest our attention ; but when magnified , to the size which they acquire in this fish , they make a stronger impression on the mind , and force us irresistibly to enquire into their use .
This direction of the artery appears to be common to fishes in general ; but the muscular structure is confined to particular tribes .
I find it is common to all the sharks , and there is a similar structure in the sturgeon .
In the wolf fish , the Anarchichus Lupus , the muscular structure of the branchial artery is nearly the same ; but the valves are placed close to the opening of the ventricle , and are only two in number .
In the turbot there is no muscular structure in this part of the artery ; but the coats are extremely elastic , and admit of being very considerably dilated , particularly at its origin , where three valves are placed , and so contrived that the dilatation of the artery makes them shut more closely .
In the Lophius Piscatorius , there is no appearance of muscularity in the coats of the branchial artery , and no lateral valves as in other fishes ; but there is a muscular tube half an inch long , rising from the edge of the opening of the ventricle which projects into the artery.* These different structures , so very unlike one another , and bearing no resemblance to the mechanism of the same parts in quadrupeds , make it probable , that the circulation through the gills is impeded by the external pressure of the water , in different degrees according to the depth of the fish from the surface : therefore in those fishes which frequent great depths , as the Squalus Maximus and all the shark tribe , there is a muscular structure in the coats of the branchial artery , which , when the fish is deep in the water , by its contraction diminishes the area of the vessel , and makes the valves perform their office ; but when the fish is near the surface , this muscular structure , by its relaxation , renders the area of the artery so wide , that regurgitation of the blood takes place into the ventricle , and prevents the small vessels of the gills from being too much loaded.t In fishes that swim deep , and do not come to the surface , as the wolf fish , the regurgitation does not take place into the ventricle ; but the relaxation of this muscular portion of the artery allows it to dilate , and form a reservoir , and the valves remain closed , so as to prevent more blood leaving the ventricle .
In fishes residing at moderate depths , as the turbot , elasticity is employed as a substitute for muscular power , there being less variation in the pressure made upon the gills ; but in the Lophius Piscatorius , which probably never descends into water of much depth , the ventricle is so weak , that the supply of blood to the gills is regulated by the contraction and relaxation of a muscular valve .
As water according to tohe degree of pressure upon it , is capable of containing a greater quantity of atmospherical air , than under ordinary circumstances , such a supersaturated state of the water might compensate , with respect to the respiration of fishes , for the difficulties , which occur at great depths , of forcing the blood through the vessels of the gills : I enquired what evidence could be produced , of the water at great depths containing a more than ordinary quantity of air ; my philosophical friends , to whom I proposed this question , said , that it was a point that had not been considered .
I therefore resolved to put it to the test of experiment , and as I knew there was a well at Mr. COUTTs 's in the Strand , which more than twentyfive years ago had been sunk four hundred feet below the surface of the water in the Thames , I requested permission to make the experiment in that well .
A cylindrical vessel , with a valve above and below , was let down to the depth of one hundred and eighty-six feet , which is now the depth of the well ; it came up full of clear water , which Mr. W. BRAND ascertained to contain no greater proportion of atmospherical air , than is met with in common river water .
It therefore appears that the supply of air to fishes is nearly the same at whatever depth they are from the surface .
Besides the guards which have been mentioned , to prevent the circulation through the gills from being improperly carried on , in particular tribes of fishes , the ventricle itself is so formed , and is so situated with respect to the auricle , that the blood received is first impelled in a direction nearly at right s36 angles to that of the artery , and then another set of muscles is employed to force it into the artery .
This mechanism , common to most fishes , and so different from what is met with in land animals , where the blood is forced by the action of the left ventricle into the different parts of the body , appears to be intended to prevent too great a force being employed , at any one time , in impelling the blood through the gills .
Having traced in these different gradations the guards upon the circulation through the gills in fishes , I am led to extend my remarks to the hearts of a lower class of animals .
In the Mollusca there is no reason for putting guards upon the action of the heart , as in fishes , because in them the blood first supplies the different parts of the body , and only in its return passes through the gills ; but there is a regulation of another kind , by means of which the circulation is increased or diminished , according to the activity or torpor of the animal .
In the teredines , where a boring engine , requiring a great muscular power to work it , is almost constantly employed , the heart consists of two auricles and two ventricles ; the auricles strong , cylindrical , and having valves between them and the ventricles ; the ventricles themselves very strong , so that in fact there is a heart , composed of two auricles and two ventricles , both acting at the same time , and the blood is hurried on by a double power to supply the muscles of the boring shells , and , in this part of its course , has a bright red colour .
In the Oyster , on the other hand , the heart consists of only one auricle and one ventricle , both very weak in their muscular power , when compared with those of the teredines , although belonging to an animal of larger dimensions ; but the heart is Ii 287 laterally connected to the great muscle that shuts the shell , so that whenever that muscle is actively employed , its lateral swell presses against the heart , and forces out the blood , and by this means gives activity to the circulation , at the only time in which an increased circulation is particularly required .
In the Muscle , the heart can hardly be said to be distinctly divided into auricle and ventricle ; but to consist of an oval bag , through the middle of which the lower pbrtion of the intestine passes .
Two veins from the gills open into the heart , one on each side , these may be considered as the auricles .
The coats of the ventricle are very thin , so as to have little power of propelling the blood ; but this weakness appears to be compensated by the effect of the contraction and relaxation of the intestine contained in their cavity .
This circumstance renders it probable , that the circulation goes on with activity while the processes connected with digestion are employed ; but when the intestines are empty , there being no supply of nourishment , the circulation is not only very languid , but may possibly be entirely stopped .
In the caterpillar , the blood cannot be said to circulate , but is carried from one end of the animal to the other , in a tube wuhich may be either called heart or artery , by a species of peristaltic motion .
This ebbing and flowing of the blood , if such a term can be admitted , is greatly increased by the pressure upon the different portions of this tube , produced by the action of muscles employed in the progressive motion of the animal , so that the supply of blood to the different parts of the body is proportioned to the demand , which arises out of the bodily exertions .
$38 -Philax .
Ttal ?
m. WLIDCCCMR , -Pla ; SV-e X L , 62 , Iiieles to a , Foot .
i i~~~~~~~~~~- !
iY YA~i lal iiiiii ; 'ii2 I , ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l I 2 &gt; .
/ 7X 9 P. rri4 'i -:1 Im '1 'K V 2~~lk '/ r y/ / , w_ i I.i iiiiIIi I. ii Ill1i 'X ' ii iI i ; , * '.m - ... :[.X'bI.~cK 'lm ... .
EXPLANATION OF TIE PLATES .
( See Plates XVI , XVII , XVIII , XIX , XX , XXI , XXII .
) Six of the following Plates are taken from drawings made by Mr. HowsHIP , who very kindly undertook that task , during the indisposition of Mr. CLIFT , and his knowledge of anatomy , which he has cultivated with much ardour , induced me to solicit his assistance upon this occasion .
PLATE XVI .
Fig. i. A view of the pectoral fin of the Squalus Maximus , from which the skin and cellular membrane are removed , to show the arrangement of the cartilages of which it is composed .
Fig. 2 .
A portion of the elastic fibrous structure with which the fin is tipped , of its natural size .
PLATE XVII .
Fig. i. An internal view of the stomach and duodenum of the Squalus Maximus .
a. The oesophagus .
bb .
The cardiac portion of the stomach .
cc .
The pyloric portion .
dd .
The spleen .
e. A small cavity belonging to the stomach .
ff .
The du , denum .
g. The band containing the hepatic ducts , six in number .
h. The dilatation in which the gall ducts terminate .
3g9 i. The opening of the pancreatic duct .
k. The spiral turns of the intestine .
Fig. e. The fringe at the termination of the oesophagus of the natural size .
PLATE XVIII .
The heart of the Squalus Maximus laid open .
a a. A portion of the internal surface of the auricle .
bb .
One of the venae cavae laid open .
c. The valve between the auricle and ventricle .
dd .
The cavity of the ventricle .
ee e. The three rows of valves and the three intermediate spaces , along which regurgitation takes place when the canal of the artery is dilated .
ff .
The strong muscular covering of the artery .
PLATE XIX .
A side view of the cerebellum , tubercula quadrigemina , and nerves of the brain of the Squalus Maximus .
, 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 .
The different nerves going off from the brain corresponding with those in the brain of man .
a. Cerebellum .
b b. Two of the tubercula quadrigemina .
c. A third tuberculum mutilated .
PLATE XX .
A view of the upper surface of the cerebellum and nerves of the Squalus Maximus .
The nerves going off marked , as in the last Plate , beyond which are two pair of nerves belonging to the spinal marrow .
o40 a a. Cerebellum .
b b. Two of the tubercula quadrigemina .
c c. The part which corresponds with the fourth ventricle in the human brain , surrounded by an oval , continued , nervous band , from which the principal nerves go off .
ddd .
Portions of the three semicircular canals of the ear in the cartilaginous cavity in which they are contained .
PLATE XXI .
A view of the upper surface of the brain of the Squalus Acanthias , taken from a fish three feet long , to show the difference of appearance and size between it and that of the Squalus Maximus .
The brain is entire , and the eyes are left in their situation , so that when this Plate is compared with that of the large brain , the parts that are wanting in it will be readily distinguished .
PLATE XXII .
A view of the heart of the Lophius Piscatorius in a distended state , showing the transparency of its coats , which are extremely thin .
a. The auricle .
b. The ventricle .
c. The branchial artery .
d. The projecting muscular tube serving as a valve .
241

