XIII .
Observations on the Functions of the Brain .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. F. R. S. Read May 26 , i81q .
HE various attempts which have been made to procure accurate information respecting the functions that belong to individual portions of the human brain , having been attended with very little success , it has occurred to me , that were anatomical surgeons to collect in one view all the appearances they had met with , in cases of injury to that organ , and the effects that such injuries produced upon its functions , a body of evidence might be formed , that would materially advance this highly important investigation .
For this purpose , I have brought together the following observations collected in the courseof my professional pursuits , stating them , as so many experiments made upon the brain , with the conclusions which tend to elucidate this particular inquiry , referring to the notes , for fuller information .
The materials that can be furnished by an individual , are necessarily very small ; they may however be sufficient to show the advantages to be derived from this mode of investigation , and by that means connect still more closely the pursuits of anatomy with those of philosophy .
SECTION I. The effects produced by an undue pressure of water upon the Brain .
Before I enter into the particular effects that take place when pressure is made upon the brain by means of water , it is necessary to mention that sudden pressure of any kind upon the cerebrum , takes away all sensibility , whether made upon the external surface through the medium of the dura matter , * or upon the internal parts through the medium of the ventricles , t and sensibility returns as soon as the unusual pressure is removed .
Faintness is the consequence of the pressure , to which the cerebrum has been accustomed , being suddenly taken off. .
I am induced to believe that pressure to a certain degree uniformly kept up , is necessary for the performance of the healthy functions of the cerebrum ; and any increase or diminution of this pressure puts a stop to them .
It is asserted , that in addition to this pressure , the pulsatory motion of the blood in the arteries of the cerebrum is also necessary ; but the late JOHN HUNTER , whose accuracy in a point of this kind is not to be doubted , retained his senses although the heart had apparently ceased to act . ?
Although insensibility is the common effect of undue pressure upon the cerebrum , it appears from what will be stated , that it is not a necessary consequence of undue pressure upon the cerebellum .
The facts which have been stated appear to point out the use of the water in the ventricles of the brain , and they account for the great variety which is met with in the form and extent of the posterior cornua of the lateral ventricles , their size varying according to the quantity of water which is necessary to keep up the pressure required .
The size of the ventricles would appear to be very immaterial , since even when they are increased so as to contain above six ale pints , the functions of the brain are all carried on , and the growth of the body proceeds ; but after the skull is completely ossified , an increase of two or three ounces produces insensibility .
That the ventricles should admit of being increased to so great an extent , without any of the senses or faculties of the brain being destroyed , is in itself a curious fact , and of so much importance with respect to the physiology of the brain , that I shall detail the two following cases , which illustrate one another .
In the one , the accumulation of water proceeded , as it will appear , as far as it could go without materially impairing the organ ; it then stopped , and the boy grew up , with all his faculties : in the other the water continued to increase , the substance of the cerebrum was absorbed , and the faculties of the brain were destroyed .
A boy at a month old had so rapid an increase of the size of his head , as to evince an accumulation of water in the brain ; and when he was five years old , the head was so large that the 3P 471 parents , judging from recollection , believe that it never after increased .
It was so transparent , that when exposed to the sun the rays passed through it as they would through a horn lantern .
He was unable to walk .
At this age , he caught the natural small-pox , which was so violent as nearly to prove fatal .
Upon his recovery , the head showed no disposition to increase , and the child in all respects began to improve , and for the first time learnt to walk .
At fourteen , the skull appeared completely ossified .
At nineteen years , the time I saw him , he was five feet six inches high ; his head measured in circumference 331 inches .
He had grown in the course of the last year about two inches , which is more than he had usually done in any one year .
All the organs of sense are entire ; savoury food is agreeable to his taste , but he is moderate in eating .
His sight is good , but looking with attention at objects more than half an hour , appears to strain his eyes .
His head is so heavy , that the muscles of the neck are unable to support it for many hours together : when he lies down , the headis supported by another person .
He sleeps with most ease on the right side , and the left side of the head appears to the eye to be rather the largest .
In lying down , there is , what he describes to be , a momentary thrilling heat felt on the upper part of the brain , in the line of the longitudinal sinus Lying on his back strains his eyes so much , that he cannot continue in that posture ; stooping forwards brings an oppression upon his eyes .
The least weight in his hand , as a tea cup , makes it tremble : all sudden noises jar his head , and produce giddiness .
When he falls down , the jar renders him insensible ; at one time this was the case for fifteen minutes , without being attended with any bad consequences 472 His head aches when exposed to heat .
He has had no illness since the small-pox .
His sleep is easily broken : he never dreams .
He is fond of reading and writing ; has a taste for poetry , and can repeat verses out of CowPER .
His memory of common things is very good .
He never expressed any attachment or passion for women .
He is of a mild disposition ; but when irritated , his whole frame is in a state of agitation , which , however , soon goes off .
In another boy , the enlargement of the head was perceived at three months , and increased for three years ; and then appeared to be stationary , and the child till that period was sensible .
The upper part of the skull from that time began to ossify , and in three years more there was only an irregular space at the fontanelle , and a small space between the two portions of the os frontis remaining open .
The child continued sensible till three years old , and then became gradually less so , did not know what it did ; heard sounds , but could not see .
At six years old he died .
The child was three feet three inches high , the skull twenty seven inches round ; the water contained in the two lateral , and third ventricles was six ale pints and a half in quantity .
The cerebrum formed a thin case of medullary substance surrounding this cavity .
The cerebellum was entire.* lb. oz. dr .
The weight of the whole brain was 21 The weight of the whole brain of a child between six and seven years 2 12 o The preceding facts explain satisfactorily that the cerebrum is made up of thin convolutions of medullary and cortical substance surrounding the two lateral ventricles ; which are unfolded when the cavities of those ventricles are enlarged , and in this unfolded state the functions belonging to this part of the organ can be carried on .
Although the quantity of water may be so much increased without material injury to the functions of the brain when the skull is not ossified , yet after that period even a few ounces in the lateral ventricles has been known to produce so much undue pressure , as to bring on head-ache , general uneasiness , a sensation as if the head were too large , loss of spirits , convulsions , loss of memory of recent events , idiotism , insensibility , and death.* cortical substance , and there the pia matter , and dura matter adhered together .
There was no remaining brain between the third ventricle and sella turcica .
On the left side of the left hemisphere the medullary and cortical substance was only half an inch thick .
The corpora striata , and thalami nervorum opticorum were small and tough : the union between the thalami was elongated into a broad flat ligament .
The two commissures , and iter ad infundibulum had the natural appearance .
The pituitary gland had become flattened .
The fourth ventricle , tuberculum annulare , and cerebellum , had nearly the natural appearance .
The olfactory nerves were tough and small ; the optic nerves had no medullary pulp ; the other nerves going out of the skull had undergone no change . ?
One ounce and half of water in the lateral ventricles , at 4{ years old , were accompanied by pain in the head , and great general irritability .
Five ounces at 7 years by insensibility for 14 days before death .
Two ounces and one half at 9 years by violent head-aches , an unwillingness to be moved , and stupor .
Three ounces at i years were attended with loss of recollection of recent events .
This began at the When the water , instead of being contained in the general cavities of the lateral ventricles , is principally confined to their posterior and anterior cornua , the effects sometimes are occasional constipation , pain in the bowels , and lower part of the belly.* When accumulated in the third ventricle without any increase in the lateral ones , distressing pain in the head , loss of speech , and insensibility have occurred .
f When accumulated in the ventricles of the brain , and also under the tuberculum annulare , painful sensations in the stomach , bowels , lower belly , and across the legs have been met with .
$ When not only in the ventricles , but between the tunica arachnoides and pia matter over the hemispheres , and also upon the tubercula quadrigemina , the apparent consequences in one age of so .
A stupor of I2 days preceded death .
Four ounces at Ii years were followed by the sensation of the head being too big , loss of speech , insensibility , convulsions .
Eight ounces at 74 years were accompanied by a state of idiotism for ten days , and then death .
case were depression of spirits , pain in the back of the head , and mania.* When in the ventricles , and also between the tunica arachnoides and pia matter , and between the dura and pia matter , melancholy , imbecility , apoplexy , and paralysis of one side , have been the accompanying symptoms.t When in the ventricles , where there has been an unusual vascularity of the dura matter , violent affections of the praecordia have occurred in the night during sleep , which have led to suicide .
X When between the dura and pia matter in considerable quantity , a state of melancholy and imbecility of mind has been met with . ?
SECTION II .
The effects produced by concussion of the Brain .
Concussion of the brain produces delirium and coma ; these symptoms go off , they sometimes in a few days return ' and prove fatal.* In the torpid state commonly attendant upon any violent shake being given to the brain , the senses are so much impaired that little information can be gained respecting the effects produced upon the internal organs .
The bovels have been found under such circumstances to be acted on by aperient medicines with great difficulty.t SECTION III .
The effects produced when the blood vessels of the Brain are preternaturally dilated or diseased .
Sudden dilatation of the blood-vessels of the cerebrum , in consequence of exposulre to the sun , is sometimes accompanied by delirium ; loss of speech and the power of swallowing.* A dilated state of the veins of the cerebrum has been attended with head-aches , which are very severe when the body is placed in a horizontal posture.* When the smaller arteries of the cerebrum are preternaturally enlarged while those of the cerebellum are not , delirium has taken place , followed by a fit resembling apoplexy , and a paralytic affection of one side.t An obstruction to the passage of the blood through the right internal carotid artery was attended by a succession of slight apoplectic fits , unaccompanied by any paralytic affection.4 An aneurismal enlargement of both the internal carotid arteries to the size of marbles projecting into the cavernous sinuses , was the only apparent cause of attacks of mania , with consciousness of being insane . ?
SECTION IV .
The effects produced by extravasated blood .
Blood in the lateral and third ventricles was attended by repeated fits of vomiting and coma.* In the fourth ventricle , a fit which in twenty four hours terminated in death ; t under the anterior lobes of the brain by hiccoughs and stupor ; under the cerebellum , by convulsions of the neck and body , with drawing up of the feet without stupor ; ?
in the folds of the pia matter covering one hemisphere , by a paralytic affection of the opposite side , without any other symptom .
11 Blood in the folds of the pia matter over the posterior lobes of the brain , and serum in the cornua of both the lateral ventricles were attended by giddiness , paralysis , straight objects appearing crooked , loss of memory , and at last idiotism.f In the right thalamus nervi optici , extending into the lateral ventricles , by paralysis of the left side of the body , both eye-lids closed , the mouth drawn on one side , a perception of light with the right eye , but not with the left , succeeded by coma.* Between the dura matter and skull covering the right hemisphere , by stupor which went off on its removal ; but taking off the pressure produced faintness for a few minutes.t Coag , llable lymph spread over the union of the optic nerves , the pineal gland , and tuberculum annulare , was followed by permanent contraction of the muscles between the occiput and vertebrae of the neck , dilatation of the pupils , and a great degree of deafness.t Serum unIder the cerebellum by restlessness , convulsions , incessant talking , at times incoherent , and the eyes became insensible to light ?
SECTION V The Effects produced by the formation of Pus .
Pus in the cornu of the right lateral ventricle was accompanied with delirium and convulsions .
Under the tuberculum annulare by vomiting and delirium .
Under the dura matter covering the right hemisphere , by delirium succeeded by coma .
Under the left parietal bone , by watchfulness , sickness , irregular pulse , clammy sweats , talking incessantly .
These eIiects went off on its removal : the quantity a tea spoonful .
l An ounce of blood was found in the substance of the right thalamus nervi optici extending into the right lateral ventricle ; the left lateral ventricle was filled with bloody serum .
't The coagulum was about half.an , inch thick .
t There was a layer of coagulable lymph , extending over the sella turcica to the parts mentioned . ?
The ; quantity was two.ounceso 480 SECTION VI .
The effects produced by depression , and thickening of different portions of the Skull .
Unusual pressure of the skull upon the middle lobe of the braii , was attended with pain in the stomach , torpor of the bowels , nausea , retching , pain between the shoulders , and in the feet.* On the upper part of the hemisphere , want of sleep , head-ache , and stupor .
Those effects went off upon its removal .
On both of the anterior lobes of the brain , heaviness , loss of memory , depression of spirits , bordering on idiotism.t On the anterior lobes of the brain , accompanied with water between the tunica arachnoides and pia matter covering the superior part of the hemispheres , an apoplectic fit , heaviness , loss of memory , and a second apoplectic fit , which terminated in death . ?
On the lower and lateral part of the left posterior lobe of the brain , uneasiness in the skin of the left cheek , extending along the chin , throat , and trachea , hissing noise in the ears , inability to speak the words the person wished to articulate , using others in their place , although conscious of doing so , and unable to correct it .
Numbness in the arms and legs .
These effects ceased on taking off the pressure.* On the anterior lobes of the brain , both anteriorly and laterally , with thickening of the pia matter , spasms in the lower extremities , and total loss of memory , so that the person did not know what he had done a few hours before : although in other respects in health .
On the lower and lateral portions of the anterior and middle lobes of the brain , head-aches , general wasting , irregularity in the action of the bowels ; the feel of inability to swallow , and great distress in the act of swallowing , with great general irritability.4 SECTION VII .
The effects of pressure from Tumours .
An hydatid imbedded in the substance of the right hemisphere of the brain , was attended with violent head-aches , and occasional fits similar to those of apoplexy.* A tumour in the substance of the posterior lobe of the brain , was attended with derangement of the functions of the stomach and bowels , double vision , and afterwards loss of sight.t A tumour pressing on the left hemisphere ; settled melancholy , drowsiness after dinner , requiring being carried into the air , which took it off , but it returned on coming back to the table.* A tumour in the fourth ventricle , epileptic fits , soreness in the throat , and great pain in the act of deglutition . ?
A tumour in the tuberculum annulare and water in the ventricles , pain in the head , stumbling in walking , the mouth drawn on one side , loss of sight of one eye , although the pupils were not affected ; dullness in hearing , difficulty of swallowing , so as to die starved , with all the mental faculties entire .
]J SECTION VIII .
Eyects of injury to the substance of the Brain .
A deep wound into the right anterior lobe of the brain , attended with inflammation and suppuration , produced no sensation whatever ; the senses remained entire , and the person did not know that the head was injured.* The brain shooting out in the form of fungus , after the dura matter is wounded , has no effect upon any of the nerves , nor is it attended with sensation ; t but the inflamed pia matter gives great pain .
Loss of a portion of the medullary substance of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum , produced no symptoms.* Loss of a portion of one of the hemispheres was attended with difficulty of swallowing for twenty-four hours , and slight delirium of short duration . ?
Ulceration of the anterior lobe of the brain , as low as the anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle , but not communicating with it , paralysis of both arms.fl *From an explosion of gun-powder , a piece of copper three inches long was forced through the eye into the brain ; but the arm being also wounded , the person never knew the eye to be injured .
When suppuration came on he became insensible , and in a few hours died .
tA fungus from the brain shot out through the dura matter after the operation of the trepan , upon the left parietal bone .
The pia matter surrounding it was so sensible , that when touched , the pain was excruciating .
tA boy five years of age , fractured his skull , and wounded the brain , half an ounce came away .
When he grew up he was more acute , and had a better memory than his brother .
|A fracture of the parietal bone , and wound of the dura matter , produced the injury to the brain .
j1 The ulceratioi took place in consequence of the trepan wounding the dura and pia matter .
484 In a case of a penetrating wound into the right hemisphere of the brain with bone forced into its substance , while there was an opening for the discharge of matter , no effects were produced , except when the circulation was much increased , and then only head-ache and numbness in the left side.* SECTION IX .
Effects of alteration of structure in the Brain , In a case in which the tuberculum annulare had undergone a change in its texture , and become so hard as with difficulty to be cut with a knife , a considerable quantity of earthy particles being intermixed with the medullary substance of the crura , and other parts of the cerebellum , and the cerebrum and upper part of the cerebellum unusually soft ; the effects were , the boy had been an idiot from his birth , never walked , spoke , or understood what was said .
Went often three days without food .
At sixteen , when he died , was no bigger than a child three years old , except the head , which was as large as it is usually at twelve.t SECTION .
X. Effects oJ injury to the Medulla Spinalis .
Pressure upon the medulla spinalis in the neck by coagulated blood produced paralytic affections of the arms and legs , all the functions of the internal organs were carried on for thirtyfive days , but the urine and stools passed involuntarily.* Blood extravasated in the central part of the medulla in the neck , was attended with paralytic affection of the legs , but not of the arms.-f In a case where the substance of the medulla was lacerated in the neck , there was paralysis in all the parts below the laceration ; the lining of the oesophagus was so sensible , that solids could not be swallowed , on account of the pain they occasioned.^ Where the medulla in the back was completely divided , there was momentary loss of sight , loss of memory for fifteen minutes , and permanent insensibility in all the lower parts of the body .
The skin above the division of the spinal marrow perspired , that below did not .
The wounded spinal marrow appeared to be extremely sensible . ?
A coagulum of blood , the thickness of a crown piece , was found lying upon the external surface of the dura-matral covering of the medulla spinalis , extending from the fourth vertebra colli , to the second vertebra dorsi .
The medulla spinalis itselfwas uninjtrled .
t The sixth and seventh vertebra colli were dislocated ; the medulla spinalis externally was uninjured ; but in the centre of its substance , just at that part , there was a coagulum of blood nearly two inches in length .
t The seventh vertebra colli was fractured , and the medulla spinalis passing through it , was lacerated and compressed . ?
The spinal marrow within the canal of the sixth vertebra dorsi was completely destroyed by a musket ball .
The person lived four days .
486

