XII .
On the Mode of breeding of the Oviviviparozus Shark , and on the Aeration of theefwtal Blood in different Classes of Aninmats By Everard Home , Esq. F. R. S. Read June 7 , 181o .
TH AT some of the shark tribe do not lay their eggs , butt hatch them within the body , and that others lay them in the same manner as the skate , has long been known ; but nothing seems to have been accurately made out upon either of these subjects , I am therefore induced to lay before the Society the following observations .
In my examination of the squalus maximus , an account of which is published , I found that it closely resembled in its internal structure , the squalus acanthius of LINNMEUS , a fish common on the Sussex coast , which made me pay particular attention to the anatomy of all the parts of this species of dogfish .
In December , which is the breeding season of this particular species of dog-fish , I procured specimens of the male , and of the female , in all the different stages of impregnation ; from the dissection of these is drawn up the following account of the organs of generation .
The male organs were found in two very different states ; in one , the testicles were small , and the penis scarcely discernible ; in the other , the testicles were larger , the epididymus and vas deferens turgid with semen , and the penis put on the appearance of a projecting infundibular canal , capable of con:4DCCCX .
E e veying the semen into the oviduct of the female , resembling in its form , the penis of the squalus maximus , only upon an infinitely smaller scale .
The pendulous bodies close to the oval fins of the male .
which have been mistaken for penises , by many physiologists , and by others:more rightly considered as claspers , to lay hold of the female , bear a close resemblance in their form to those of the squalus maximus , which have been described in my account of that fish , under the name holders , and from every part of their mechanism , there can be no doubt that they perform that office .
In the breeding season , they become more fleshy ithan at other times , the muscles at that time being enlarged .
The insertion of the penis into the female , is not unlike that of the common fowl , but the penis is fitted to inject the semen further into the oviduct than can be done by the grooved penis of the cock .
When the holders are spread out , so as to embrace the female , even after the fishes are dead , the penis is brought forward by that means , so as readily to enter the external orifice of the oviducts , to which it is guided by the prominence of the clitoris .
The holders are represented in this expanded:state in the annexed drawing .
The mode in which the semen enters the penis is so unlike what is met with in other animals , that it deserves to be particularly explained .
The vasa deferentia are convoluted in their course , but 'become straight and much enlarged at the lower part , and instead of going on to the penis , terminate by two wide ?
orifices on the posterior surface of what may be called fue urinary bladder , which is of an oval shape , and partially divided into two by a septum , on each side of which the ureters enter it .
From this cavity , the penis is continued like the neck of a Florence flask , and the semen , before it can arriveat the penis , fills the bladder , and is propelled by the action of the muscular coats of that cavity , by which means ; the semen acquires velocity , and the penis is rendered turgid during the whole time that such force is applied to the liquid passing through it .
This bladder at other times is a reservoir for the urine , which must be considered a secondary office in a fish constantly living in water .
The situation and appearance of the testicles are seen in the annexed drawing , which makes a description of them unnecessary .
The female organs , before they undergo the necessary changes to form the eggs , and prepare them to receive the influence of the male , are very little developed ; the ovaria are not larger than the testicles of the male before the breeding season , and resemble them both in their appearance and situation ; the oviducts are so small as with great difficulty to be traced , and the clitoris is just large enough to be distinguished .
When the eggs are formed , all these parts develope themselves .
The ovaria became exceedingly vascular , and the yolks become conspicuous in all the stages of their increase , from the size of a pea to that of a walnut , and when arrived at that size , they pass into the oviduct .
The number of yolks which are ready at any one time to pass into the oviduct , varies exceedingly in different fishes , and even in the two ovaria of the same fish .
I have seen five of the full size in one ovarium , and only two in the other in another fish there were three in each , and so on to a great variety .
The oviducts enlarge , and become exceedingly extended .
In a fish s7 inches long , each oviduct was 26 inches in length ; its internal surface was formed into three distinct cavities , separated from one another by contractions in the coats of the canal .
The first of these begins from the orifice that receives the yolk , and is pyramidal in its form ; it is ten inches in length , and gradually diminishes in its capacity , the coats being extremely elastic , which throws the internal membrane into folds in a longitudinal direction , taking a very serpentine course .
At the termination of this portion , the contraction is formed by the interposition of a substance of a fibrous structure , .
'and light grey colour , between the external coat and internal membrane , foriring a circular baind , which is divided into three equal parts by two circular parallel lines on the internal rmembrane .
This band is half an inch broad , and its internal surface has a glanLdular appearance .
The second cavity is only six inches long , its internal membrane is very vascular , adi thrownr into plica in a longitudinal direction , longer , thicker , and less numerous than those of the first portion ; they are smeared over with inmucus .
This cavity is separated from the third , by a transverse fold of the intertnal imem 'ratne in a contracted state .
The third portion is ten inches long , and forms the cavity in which the eggs are retained , till youn ug fishes are formed , and capable of taking care of themselves .
The eggs , however , are not loose in the oviduct , as in birds , but a certailn nt ub r s08 corresponding to the number of yolks that are in a state to leave the ovarium at the same time , are enclosed in a membranous bag , piled one upon the other .
This bag , at its upper end , is grasped by the contraction which separates the middle and lower portion of the oviducts ; the other extremity , which is in the foxrm of a blunted cone , is loose and moveable in the surrounding cavity ; the eggs are enveloped in a transparent jelly , which occupies every part of the bag , beyond that in which the eggs are contained .
The clitoris becomes so much enlarged.as to project externally ; its base swells out into the form of a heart , as it is painted upon cards , only that it is much more pointed ; the posterior surface adheres closely to the parts behind it , for one half of its length , the other half is loose , and on its upper surface there is a groove passing on each side , towards the orifices of the two ovidutcts .
The nymaphm are formed by a fold of the , termination of the rectumn and project laterally ; they are very vascular , and compnose the external orifice of the vestibulum , beyond which are the contracted openings of the oviducts .
After impregnation has taken place , the pendulous portion of the clitoris becomes flaccid and narrow .
'When the young , dogfish is completely formed , the yolk remains attached to the belly by -a long '-cord , consisting of blood vessels , and the fish swims about in the surrounding jelly with this attached to it .
IK the bag is torn , and the fishl is taken out and put into water , it swims about , but if the vessels going to the yolk are wounded , the fish immediately dies .
What inmber of the shark tribe have tis particular mode of hatching their eggs is not at present known but there is 2.oq reason to believe , that it is very general , since the eggs oer the empty shells belonging to this tribe of fishes , are rarely met with .
The squalus maximus , I have no doubt , is of this kind ; and , from the following memorandum of my late friend Dr. PATRICK RUSSELL , given to me by Sir JOSEPH BANKS , the large shark met with between the Tropics , breeds in the same way .
" A shark caught on the 14th of November , 78 , in lat. 7 ?
N. measured 8 feet 7 inches , the tail included .
The tlead and body of a dark bluish colour , the breast and belly of a silver white .
Upon opening the belly , the two oviducts were distended with young ones contained within an inner cavity , swimming in a white gelatinous liquid , thicker than the liquor amnios of quadrupeds .
" The right oviduct contained 21 young ones , the left to ; of these 25 were males , and i6 females ; they were all nearly of the same length , between 9 and io inches , and each of them had the yolk attached to its belly , by a chord of considerable length .
" ' In the lat. 5 ?
N. another female shark was caught 7 feet long ; it had only 8 young ones , 4 on each side .
" Of the oviparous shark I could obtain no information , but what is contained in BOHADSCH , in whose works there is an engraving of the egg , and of the shark to which it belonged , caught in the Mediterranean .
So little has this subject been attended to by naturalists , that no mention is made that I know of , in any author , of such eggs being met with upon the coast of Great Britain ; I was , however , so fortunate as to find a shark 's egg on the sea beach at Worthing in Sussex , in Sept. 1809 , and in the course of that month , procured several :fO them containing young sharks in all the different stages of their growth .
The egg which is represented in the annexed drawing , is exactly similar to the engraving in BOHADSCH when minutely examined , there is on each side of the egg a -small slit , for the admission of salt water within the shell .
In the latter end of October , a young dog-fish was sent me 13 inches long , which exactly resembled the embryo in the egg , and proves to be the squalus canicula of LINNSUS ; it had been feeding on the worms met with in the sand banks , some of which were found in its stomach .
The oviviparous and oviparous dog-fishes , differ materially in the form of their stomachs .
In the first , the pyloric portion is short and wide , in the other , long and narrow like an intestine .
As there are larger sharks with both these kinds of 'stomach , it is reasonable to believe they have also the same zdifference in their mode of breeding .
The gelatinous liquid which surrounds the ova of the dog-fish , was found to differ exceedingly in its properties from other animal jellies , for when the membranous bag contain .
ing it , was immersed in proof spirit , for the purpose of preserving the ova in their natural situation , the jelly , instead of coagulating , as was expected , expanded so much " as to burst the bag .
So striking a peculiarity led to a further consideration of it , and a suggestion naturally arose in my mind , that -there might be a similarity between it and the jelly , with which the ova of the frog are surrounded .
I therefore requested my friend Mr. W. BRAND , to examine the chemical , properties of both these substances , and shall subjoin his -account of them .
That the jelly in the oviviparous dog-fish , is formed in the $'1 '1 middle portion of the oviduct , there can be no doubt ; but the exact part in which the jelly of the frog is formed , has not been ascertained , which led me to make the following obser vations respecting it .
In some frogs that were kept in a damp cellar through the winter , no visible change took place in the ovaria or oviducts , although-frequently examined , by immersing parts of them in water at different temperatures , till the loth of February ; at that time a portion of the oviduct , when immersed in water at 80 , swelled out so as to double its size , and when the water was at -sio expanded very rapidly .
On the s5th of February the oviducts were seen to enlarge , and on slitting them open , ~the internal surface was smeared over with a ropy fluid .
A portion of oviduct two or three inches long , in water heated to lo ?
, swelled out into a mass of transparent jelly which filled a half pint tumbler , and all traces of the coats of the oviduct were lost .
Upon showing this jelly to Sir JOSEPH BANKS , he said that it very much resembled what he had seen when a boy , in the country during the winter months , upon the ground , and on the boughs of trees , called star-shot jelly , from being supposed to be formed by falling stars ; and that it would be worth while to compare them together , and determine whether the common opinion mentioned by PENNANT , which Sir JosEPv BANKS had always believed , was correct .
The jelly is said to be brought into this state , by the frog having been swallowed by a bird , and the warmth and moisture of the stomach , making the jelly in the oviducts expand so much , that the bird is ohiiged to reject it by vomiting .
Sir JoSEPH BANKS procured some star-shot jelly from Lincolnshire , and Mr. W. BRAND found that it was in all its chemical properties , the same with that formed in the oviduct of the frog , and when saturated with water , resemibled the jelly in the oviduct of the dogfish .
The consideration of the properties of this jelly , with which the ova of the oviviviparousdog-fish and of the frog , are surrounded , and the purposes it is intended to answer , led me to take a view of the various modes by which the foetal blood is aerated in the different classes of animals .
The provisions of nature for this very important purpose , form a beautiful series .
The ova of many fish , as the salmon and trout , are laid in the sand and gravel , and the foetal blood of the embryo is aerated by means of the surrounding water ; these fishes , therefore , are found to spawn as near as possible to the sources of springs , where the water , coming from the earth , is in a state of high aeration .
The ova of other fish , which spawn in waters less impregnated with air , are deposited on the leaves of water plants and weeds , that give out oxygen , by means of which , the embryo has its blood aerated .
The tench and the pike are of these kinds .
The ova of the perch are surrounded by a jelly as that in the frog , which imbibes water , probably for aerating the foetal blood .
These observations were suggested to me , by my friend Professor DAVY , who has made it a part of his amusements to attend to the habits of fishes .
The ova of the oviparous shark , skate , and all that tribe , although too strong in their coats to be penetrated by the sea water , have natural apertures for its admission and escape,..DCCCX .
F f there being two on each side of the egg , so that there is a current of sea water constantly supplying the egg with air .
In the oviviviparous sharks the ova have no hard covering , being contained within the body of the fish , they are surrounded by the same jelly as in the frog , and the sea water is applied to the membrane in which they are enclosed , the opening of the oviduct admitting it for that purpose .
In the bird , the eggs being surrounded by atmospherical air , are supplied with it through the porous texture of the shell , which readily transmits it to the membranes of the embryo .
In all these tribes , the mode , in which the air is applied to the foetal blood is as follows .
Besides the common circulation of the blood from the heart of the embryo , to the different parts of its frame , there is a lesser circulation from the arteries to the membranes , which enclose the embryo , and which are in contact with the aerated water , or air , in which the egg is deposited ; in this circulation , the blood attracts the air through the membrane , and conveys it into the system .
In birds , the young are fed and taken care of by the parents , after the eggs are hatched , and in them this foetal circulation is immediately stopped , on the embryo breaking the shell , and the yolk is drawn up into the belly as a supply of nourishment , till the stomach has acquired the powers of digestion .
In the oviviviparous sharks , the young ones swim about in the jelly , which surrounds the ova , with the yolk attached to the belly by a long vascular chord , till fitted to swim in the sea , and all this time the blood is aerated from these membranes .
After the young leaves thie bag in which the eggs are contained , the yolk is taken into the belly , as in the bird , -214 In the opossum tribe , and all the pouched animals in New South Wales , there is a peculiarity in the form of the femnale organs of generation , which has not been understood ; this is a communication between the uterus and vagina during the formation of the embryo , by means of one or two lateral canals .
These I described in my account of the female organs of generationof the Kanguroo , and was led to believe , from the coagulated state of the parts , which had been a year preserved in spirit , that the openings into the vagina were closed ; but this mistake was afterwards corrected in my account of the Wombat , in which I stated from Mr. BELL , who examined the uterus with the eimbryo in it , " On opening the vagina , it was found to terminate at the common neck of the uteri ; on each side of which , were the openings.of the lateral canals , and in the middle between them , the meatus urinarius , with a slender fleshy pedicle on each side of it .
Behind the meatus urinarius , were two orifices leading to the uteri , but they were filled with a thick gelatinous substance , which rendered them completely impervious .
" These lateral canals enlarge very much , as the embryo begins to .
form ; at one end they open freely into the uterus , and at the other into the vagina ; they are distended with jelly , and are employed to keep up a communication with the external air , for the purpose of aerating the foetal blood ; their appearance in the kanguroo is seen in the annexed drawing .
As the embryo in all the animals of this tribe is contained in a soft egg , which , from the description of Mr. BELL , the only person who has attentively examilned it , has no connection with the internal membrane of the uterus , some apparatus like the lateral canals became necessary for the aeration of the fetal blood .
The embryo in these animals , therefore , forimns the intermediate link between the ova that are deposited in , the oviduct , and hatched there , and the foetus formed in the uterus ; it resembles the first , in the mode by which the foetal blood is aerated , and the second , in the situation in which it is deposited , and in the mode of its being supplied with nourishient after birth .
In quadrupeds in general , and the human species , the foetal blood is aerated in a very different manner , from that which has been described ; for although the foetal circulation sends a portion of its blood to the whole Qf the membranes in whicIh the embryo is ilclosed , as in oviparous animals , the influence of the external air is excluded , from the coats of the uterus , to which these membranes every where adhere .
The foetal blood is however close enough to that in the vessels of the uterus , to have the air in the maternal blood communicated , to it .
There are three different structures of the membranes of the foetus for this purpose ; one of these is the whole of the foetal membrane next the uterus , being extremely vascular , as in the horse and ass ; the second , is having only particular portions of it loaded with blood vessels , as in the deer ; the third , is having only one large mass , into which the foetal blood vessels pass to a certain depth , beyond which is a cellular structure , filled with blood from the arteries of the uterus , and taken up by the uterine veins , so that in this instance , there is a greater mass of blood belonging to the mother , nearly in contact with the foetal blood , than in other animals .
From the series of facts which has been detailed , it appears , that oxygen is essentially necessary for the action of the 2,16 viifying principle in all classes of animals ; and that it is not simply applied to the blood , but mixed with that fluid while circulating in the arteries , since , if this were not the case , there would be no means of aerating the foetal blood in the higher orders of animals .
Experiments on the yelly formed in the Oviduct of the Frog , and Oviviviparous Shark , by Mr. W. Brand , F.R. S. The substance contained in the oviduct of the frog , is of a whitish colour , nearly opaque and extremely viscid .
It does not mix with water , but at common temperatures expands slowly in that fluid to about twelve times its original bulk .
At a temperature of oo ?
, this expansion is much more considerable , and the substance puts on the appearance of anr attenuated and nearly transparent jelly , but none of it is dissolved .
The expansion seems to depend on the absorption of water by the gelatinous substance , the proportion of water taken up being very great .
A piece of the unexpanded substance of the size of a large pea , requires rather less than three ounces of water for its complete expansion , and a mass of jelly equal in-bulk to three ounces is formed .
This substance dried at atemperature of 212 ?
, becomes brittle , but when it is put in this state , into moderately warm water , it again expands , becoming nearly as bulky as before , Digested in alcohol it becomes brittle and opaque , and contracts to about one half of its original bulk .
If in this contracted and perfectly brittle state , it be put into warm water , it again expands as before .
But when once expanded , itis neither .
hardened.:nor coagulated by alcohol .
, i-t is soluble in nitric , sulphuric , and muriatic acids .
Nitric acid , diluted with its weight of water , when poured upon the substance recently removed from the oviduct , 7changes its colour to a deep yellow , and rapidly dissolves it on the application of a moderate heat .
This solution is of a pale yellow colour .
The caustic fixed alkalies render it slightly turbid when not added in excess ; in this case the , mixture becomes perfectly transparent .
Miuriatic acid at a boiling temperature , dissolves the recent substance very rapidly , forming a solution of a deep blue colour , * in which no precipitation is produced by the alkalies .
Concentrated sulphuric acid dissolves the substance from the oviduct slowly , and forms a pale brown solution .
If heat be applied , the colour approaches to black .
No change is produced by the alkalies in these sulphuric solutions .
The substance is very rapidly dissolved by a boiling solution of caustic potash .
The compound is imperfectly saponaceous , its transparency is not disturbed by the addition of sulphuric or of muriatic acid ; but nitric acid added in a small excess , renders it slightly turbid .
None of the solutions which have been described , afford any precipitation on the addition of tannin , neither does water , in which the substance has been boiled , yield even the smallest traces of gelatine .
e The blue colour of this solution , is -nstantly destroyed by the addition of an alo kali : it seems to arise from the formation of a very minute portion of prussiate of , iron .
Mr. HATCHETT has observed , that some of the varieties of albumen afford a biue solution , when long digested in muriatic acid : this is probably from the ; aine.ca , use .
Phil. Trans. i80o , elNo coagulation is produced in this substance , by VOLTAIC electricity , from so double plates of four inches .
These experiments show , that the substance from the oviduct of the frog , is of a peculiar nature : its charactristic property being the remarkable power of expansion , by the absorption of water .
It is distinguished from gelatine by its insolubility in water , and by affording no precipitate with solutions contain'ig tannin : fom albumen , by not coagulating on the application of acid , or electricity , and by forming compounds with the alkalies , which are not saponaceous .
In some of its other properties , it would appear , as fir as regards its chemical habitudes , to be a substance , intermediate between albumen and gelatine .
The gelatinous substance from the egg of the dog-fish , has the properties of that from the oviduct of the frog in its expanded state , and is consequently analogous to wlat has been termed star-shot jelly .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. .
PLATE IX .
An internal view of the belly of the oviviviparous dog-fish , squalus acanthias , of LINNIUs : to show the organs of gneration in their natural situation , when in a state fit for impregnating the female .
a The heart .
bb The liver.-The left lobe is cut away to expose the parts behind .
c The zesophagus .
d The cardiac portion of the stomach .
e The pyloric portion .
f The small cavity between the pylorus and duodenum .
g The duodenum .
hh The valvular intestine .
ii An appendix to the intestine with which it communicates .
kk The testicle .
l/ The vas deferens , the lower portion of which is straight and distended with semen .
m The cavity which is the reservoir of semen , and urinary bladder .
nz The kidney .
o The penis .
pp Two external openings leading into the cavity of the abdomen .
qq The two holders in their collapsed state .
PLATE X. The holders in their extended state , as they appear when the male is clasping the female .
In this state of the parts , the penis is brought forward , and projects externally .
On each side of it is seen the opening which leads into the cavity of the abdomen .
The parts are of the natural size .
PLATE XI .
An internal view of the abdomen of the female squalus acanthias of LINN3EUS , to show the organs of generation in the maiden state .
a The heart .
bb The liver .
cc The stomach .
d The spleen .
ee The valvular intestine .
f The appendix .
gg The ovaria .
hh The openings of the oviducts , by which they receive the ova from the ovaria .
ii The course of the oviduct .
kk The oviduct on the opposite side .
I The clitoris .
mm The kidnies , PLATE XII .
Shows the oviduct of the squalus acanthias , with the ova in it , and the young fish after it has left the mother ; also the ovum of the squalus canicula or oviparous dog-fish , and the young .
Fig. i. The oviduct taken out of the body .
The orifice which receives the ova , beyond which the oviduct is slit open .
bb The first portion of the oviduct .
cc The second portion .
dd The third portion , containing the ova enclosed in the capsule ; they are three in number ; beyond them the capsule comes to a point , and these processes are filled with a transparent jelly .
Fig. 2 .
The young squalus acanthias .
Fig. 3 .
The ovum of the squalus canicula , containing the young fish , with the yolk attached to it ; and showing the slits by which the salt water gets to the membranes of the young : the bristle enters one aperture , and comes through the other .
Fig. 4 .
The young squalus canicula .
PLATE XIII .
The uterus and lateral canals of the kanguroo , in the impregnated state .
aa The vagina .
bb The openings of the lateral canals into it .
, c cc The two lateral canals , one laid open .
dd The two sides of the uterus .
ee The openings of the fallopian tubes .
f The imperfect septum of the uterus .
g The ovarium slit open to show the corpus luteum .
i &amp; o'.67}ns .
MIDCCCX._ZT'/ , XI .
p. 22z ... , " ,. .
_= .
s : , ' ~:~ .
- ?
-~--v'* I , 1 ' .
; , : ~ , Z " GA r,.i ; , , , V.x : , ~ .
X " a. .
v # .
------.-----A_~___~~_ ___ ___~ ~_._. .
~ __~ ... _ .
~ SC 7 ' ILI iI iIIIIiIIIIIiiIiI Io lIi ii iiiI1 -D

