IV .
The Croonian Lecture for 1826 .
By Sir EVERARD HOME , Bart. V. P. R. S. Read November 16 , 1826 .
THE subject of the present Lecture , is an enquiry into the mode by which the propagation of the species is carried on , in the common oyster , and in the large fresh-water muscle .
Aided by Mr. BAUER'S microscopical observations , illustrated by his representations of the facts that were ascertained , I have been enabled to lay before the Society many curious particulars respecting self-impregnating animals , which could only be brought to light by an examination of the organs of generation in the field of the microscope ; and without the continuance of his assistance , I confess myself unable to prosecute the enquiry .
It is now a period of five years since we entered upon the present investigation , continuing it during the breeding seasons of these two species of bivalves .
Having at last brought our labours to a satisfactory conclusion , I shall now detail the observations we have made .
The singular fact of pearls having their origin in the abortive ova of these bivalves , has been already recorded in the Philosophical Transactions .
Before that discovery was made , a pearl was imagined to be the nacral covering which the animal has a power of secreting upon any extraneous body , introduced by accident , or otherwise , between the shells , to render its surface equally smooth and polished with the shell itself , and thus prevent it from injuring the substance of the animal in contact with it .
In the HUNTERIAN collection there are many specimens , in which extraneous bodies of different kinds have been introduced within the shells , through holes bored for that purpose , while the animal was alive ; which in the course of time received an external coat of nacre , and bear a general resemblance to the pearl ; some of these were glass beads , some leaden shot ; but the lustre of the pearl cannot , I believe , be imitated , since it is produced by the bright internal surface of the central cell shining through the semitransparent coats which are afterwards formed upon it .
Although the ova of the oyster and fresh-water muscle agree in this one particular , of becoming the nucleus on which pearls are formed , the process gone through before the young is completely formed , is not the same in both species .
As the oyster is more simple in its structure , from having no organs fitted to give it the power of loco motion , which the muscle is provided with , I shall take its mode of propagation first into consideration .
In the whole range of comparative anatomy in which separate organs are developed for the three essential purposes of animal life , sensation , digestion , and propagation of the species , those organs in the oyster are the smallest , the most simple , and have the least to occupy them .
Their mode of propagation will be found even more simple than it is in many plants , and the processes that are gone through , are carried on in a much shorter time .
As the following account does not , I believe , accord 40O entirely with those already before the public , either in this country , or in France , I have only to observe , that although others may have laboured the subject for a greater length of time , none , I am sure , have brought more diligence to the enquiry , or have more frequently revised the observations that were first made , with a view to correct any errors that were detected .
With respect to the drawings by which the facts are illustrated , I can answer for their fidelity , should any voucher be necessary beyond the author 's name .
On the mode of breeding in the Oyster .
The structure of the ovaria is so little developed , that it is difficult to discover these organs ; and in the first instance , it requires the aid of the microscope for that purpose , even in the breeding season .
In this country , where the beds are not allowed to be disturbed during the season in which oysters spawn , we labour under a considerable disadvantage in the prosecution of this enquiry ; and I am indebted to my friend Mr. COPELAND HUTCHINSON , who procured for me the opportunity of examining some oysters weekly , during the period they are prohibited from being sold in the public market , taken from a private bed near Sheerness .
The situation of the two ovaria , for I consider them to be double , as in fishes , is immediately within the membranes that line the two shells , having the liver placed between them ; they consist of a membrane , whose use is not to be ascertained till the ova become visible attached by pedicles , and hanging from it .
The structure of the liver resembles so closely that of the ovarium , while containing ova , as only to be distinguished by its more internal situation , and its colour , which is a shade darker .
In the month of March , the ova are so large as to be distinctly seen in the field of the microscope , and are then spherical ; as they increase in size , the membrane to which they are attached becomes thickened .
In June , they have arrived at their full size , and a white fluid like cream is now noticed surrounding them .
That this is the impregnating liquor , is more than rendered probable by the ova dropping , or having dropped from their pedicles , and undergone a change in their appearance , a vesicle having formed , soon after which they leave the ovarium .
For this purpose a tube becomes visible , which before this period could not be detected ; it originates by an opening between the two ovaria , which communicates with them both , and forms a sheath , in which the intestine is enclosed ; it terminates externally by an orifice between the lips that surround the mouth of the oesophagus .
This tube is the oviduct , which is single .
The embryo is found when it enters the oviduct , to have already acquired a shell .
The young begin to leave the ovaria in the end of June ; and at the latter part of July none are to be found either in the ovaria or oviduct .
On the 5th of August oysters are brought to market .
The ovaria , after the spawning has taken place , are not visible to the naked eye , but do not become evanescent , since in the microscope , fresh ova are seen in the very early part of their formation .
As fishes are what is called in high season while the ovaria are full of ova , it was to me not a little extraordinary that 42 oysters should , by common consent , be admitted neither to be good nor wholesome , under the same circumstances ; for no general law against dredging for them would prevent those possessed of private beds from indulging their appetites during the months of May , June , and July , if they found that oysters were better in those months I had an opportunity last July of setting this question at rest ; for being at Dieppe , in France , where there is no restriction laid upon oysters , I ordered some for dinner : they had no flavour , none of the company could eat them .
I found it equally true in Paris ; but the fact is , the period respecting the oyster , which corresponds to the breeding season of fishes , is March and April , when the ova are getting ready for impregnation .
In June and July the ova have been impregnated , and may be said to have spawned at the time the embryo is first received into the oviduct , which is in the month of June .
At the time the young oysters leave the oviduct , there is a mucus of a purple colour which is voided at the same time , probably for the purpose of supplying them with nourishment while they remain enclosed within the enveloping mantle by which the gills are surrounded , While in this situation they often become a prey to small sea-worms , which get between the shells , and gorge themselves with the young ones .
I have seen these worms with their stomach completely distended with young oysters .
There are many curious structures met with upon the edge of the mantle which encloses the gills .
As these appear enlarged in the breeding seasons , their uses may be applicable to the growth of the animal , of the shell , or the formation of nacre .
Accurate representations of them are given , that others 43 may be enabled to consider them , which is no part of the present enquiry .
The stomach and intestine of the oyster I have upon another occasion considered and delineated , and laid before the Society .
The heart has a near resemblance to that of the teredines , having two auricles and one ventricle .
On the mode of breeding o ' the fresh-water muscle .
In this bivalve , the ovaria in their situation and appearance are the same as in the oyster .
The ova arrive apparently at the same size before they are impregnated , which in them also takes place in the ovaria .
The ova , while attached by their pedicles to the membrane of the ovarium , have an appearance only to be distinguished from the structure of the liver by the difference of colour .
About the loth of August the ova are completely formed in the ovaria , and are detected about the o2th of the same month passing into the oviduct , which is a curiously trellised structure situated between the membranes that compose the bronchiae ; and about the isth of September they have all arrived there .
That impregnation has preceded this change of situation is evident from the ovum having been formed into a vesicle , through the coats of which vesicle , very soon after it has been retained there , the embryo is distinctly seen surrounded by a fluid , opening and shutting the incipient shells for the aeration , and probably the nourishment of the foetus in this stage of its growth .
While in this situation , many of the young were seen 44 turning round as it were upon a centre .
This motion had been taken notice of by LEWENHOEK , who thought it so extraordinary that he did not wish the fact to rest upon his own evidence , and called his wife and daughter , that they might bear testimony of its having taken place .
When Mr. BAUER first met with it , the same notion occurred to him , of wishing to have other witnesses than his own eyes .
He called in a young female servant , and having directed her eye upon the object , he asked what she saw ?
-a little white thing turning round and round .
This revolving motion of the embryo very naturally attracted my particular consideration ; and having seen the porcelain manufactory at Worcester , it bore so close a resemblance to the circular motion given to the pieces of clay out of which plates and saucers are formed , that for some time I was completely deceived ; but Mr. BAUER 's close and persevering examination very soon detected the true cause of this strange phenomenon , which was produced by a small worm that had got into the vesicle , and while feeding on the embryo , performed these revolutions , carrying the young muscle round along with it , although itself concealed from the eye of the observer .
The young remain in the oviduct , the interior of which has a greater resemblance to the honey comb in which the young bees are deposited , than any thing else I am acquainted with , till they arrive at the size fitting them to provide for themselves ; they leave the oviduct in October and November .
When the young are ready to leave their cellular prison , a canal is formed through which they pass out ; and as the &amp; 45 foot of the parent muscle is partly surrounded by a portion of the oviduct , when the foot is extended in the progressive motion of the animal , that portion of the oviduct is also carried beyond the external shells , so that the young will have every facility in being set entirely at liberty .
This happens , as I have mentioned , in the months of October and November , towards the end of which they have all escaped ; and even at this time young ova : are found in the ovariaum , preparing for the next season .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
Plate III .
Fig. i. An oyster with the convex shell uppermost , to identify the species to which it belongs .
Fig. 9 .
The same oyster , the convex shell being removed , showing the whole oyster , with the entire cloak , &amp;c. &amp;c. Fig. 3 .
The same oyster , the cloak and one layer of the beard being removed , to show the ovarium and oviduct ; from the edge of the ovarium is a small slice cut off , to exhibit the ova in their natural situation in an early state of pregnancy .
Fig. 4 .
An oyster in the act of emitting its living young ones , which are enveloped in a purple coloured mucus .
N. B. All these four figures are natural size .
Plate IV .
Fig. i. A perpendicular section of an oyster , to exhibit the course of the alimentary canal , the oviduct , the heart , &amp;c. &amp;c. the cloak and the beard being removed ; magnified 2 diameters .
Fig. 2 .
A very small portion of the ovarium , with the ova imbedded in its substance ; magnified loo diameters .
Fig. 3 .
Some ova extracted from the same ovarium , as they 46 ?
1~~-----~~~~"1--1-1 - , / YXzi7/ hz7zA &lt; 1J)CGGX : XuTf1at Gcfe LVp4 &amp; S _ ____d .
A / /:~2I ra Ct !
i ; ; ?
{ :}l { ~a !
~ ] .
( 7 7`-=il !
?i ?
i ; ?
, ; , , , .
: ?
: : ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
: ?
P'I : ?
: : ; ` : ?
' ?
k --a b. ; : ?
- ? ? ? ?
: , - , , ; ; : : : : , i ?
-:i ?
I , i , ? ? ?
?a B : ... - ; I ?
: ; ? ?
: : ?
- ?
" ?
; I ?
.i.d'"- ' : ; " ; :::- ? ? ? ? ?
' ?
i ?
: ?
, : ? .
; : ? ? ? ? ?
: ? .
; ::i:I : ?
i : ?
:':i ?
- ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
; ::/ 60 .
-._ .
i / 27/ 3 2/ C 1 I : ?
: 3 ... .
L I_ X_I___I_ I__C 1 __.__u---------- .
-----I IIIIIIiiIIiIi 1 : i 1 ; IJ -I I II iH 4ii IIiiIiIIIII 1 .
I il i 1i / .
' ' ; ,._p : ?
r ?
:_i _____ ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ *J2./ M , / e.MDLW((i XX\ IL..Z/ XZ ?
Vt./ 2# , / / I. --= / .4 .
0 &lt; 1 0d '0 &lt; ' 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1::i ? ? ? ? ?
; ?
i~ ~ ~~0 0 &lt; fl 0 &lt; " " ' ( I '0'z iti iI 11 I i , ii tI ii1i II " ; : : ; ::::_::i- ? ? ? ?
awe ; ?
, i.-i ; i , : ; " , : I " ?
: s : : ; : li 4 ' ' u.11 t.I IIiIIiiii 11 IiIiIIIII " ?
" ..- , -.m I , ii Ii 1 ij ik i , : ' ? ?
1 : ?
: : ?
: iji : j ; e ; ?- ?
-:- ; ?ifl ' ?
a ; : ?
: ?
;al ? ? ? ?
; ?._ , ... .
; 1 ... ? ? ? ?
: : ? ? ?
?- ; ?
rS:j - ? ? ? ?
, : , ? ? ?
?::-- ; a-:- ?
-::- ; :k:i ?
:j ?
aa : ; , ? ? ? ? ? ?
" " r ; " '""- , ; " ; - ?
i " : ' ?
- ; - ?
` :j !
i ' ; ; : : : : : ; : ' ' ; , - : ` 7 .
'g I " ?
: - ?
Ip : ?
i:.P ?
i ' ' ' " ' - ; ; : ? ? ? ?
jtg 1 : 63 ; " " ? ? ? ?
; b ' appear when floating in water , when they assume nearly a spherical form : at a is one of the ova after having been about one hour in water , when they dissolve into a granulated mass ; magnified loo diameters .
Fig. 4 .
An equally small portion of an ovarium in a more advanced state of pregnancy ; magnified loo diameters .
Fig. 5 .
Some ova extracted from the above portion of ovarium , floating in water , magnified moo diameters : at a is one of these ova bursting , and emitting its granulated substance ; magnified loo diameters ; at b is an empty , unimpregnated probably , ovum ; magnified 0oo diameters .
Fig. 6 .
Several young oysters just emitted from the oviduct , and floating in water and their natural mucus ; magnified o00 diameters .
Fig. 7 .
Some of the same young oysters , after having been some time in contact with the air , when they become quite opaque and assume a glossy appearance ; magnified 1oo diameters .
Fig. 8 .
A small portion of the cloak with its fringe ; magnified 25 diameters .
Fig. 9 .
A portion of the fringe spread open ; magnified 5o diameters .
Fig. o1 .
The heart , with its auricles in the natural position , as it lies in the oyster ; magnified 4 diameters .
Plate V. Fig. 1 .
A fresh-water muscle , one shell , and its lining or cloak removed ; natural size .
Fig. 2 .
The same muscle with the oviduct removed , and a perpendicular section of the ovarium ; natural size .
Plate VI .
Fig. i. A very small portion of the ovarium , with 47 the ova imbedded in the yellow granular substance of the ovarium , magnified ioo diameters .
Fig. s. A transverse section of a portion of the oviduct ; magnified 2 diameters .
Fig. s. A small portion of the inside of the oviduct , with some of the ova ready for emission ; magnified 2o diameters .
Fig. 4 .
Several ova , of various sizes , extracted from the ovarium ; magnified ioo diameters .
Fig. 5 Ova , in the early state , extracted from the oviduct , and floating in water ; magnified ioo diameters .
Fig. 6 .
Ova nearly ready for emission , extracted from the oviduct , and floating in water ; at A is one just bursting its enclosing membrane or bladder ; magnified ioo diameters .
Fig. 7 .
Some young muscles , just emitted , floating in water , where they are opening and closing in a very lively manner for several hours ; magnified ioo diameters .
Fig. 8 .
Is the origin and progress of a singular worm , which is found within the oviduct of the muscle : originally it is an extremely minute globule , which is only to be distinguished from the usual granular substance by a curious rotatory motion , which it performs incessantly until it becomes quite organised ; and it attains sometimes the length of an inch ; magnified 1oo diameters .
4P8

