VIII .
An Account of a small Lobe of the human prostate Gland , which has not before been taken Notice of by Anatomists .
By Everard Home , Esq. F. R. S. Read February 20 , 180o6 DISCOVERIES in the anatomy of the human body have been ever considered by this learned Society as deserving a place in the Philosophical Transactions : in the present improved state of our knowledge of this subject , a small addition to it cannot fail of being acceptable , since after the long continued labours of so many acute observers , such only can be expected , and even those are rarely to be acquired .
The subject of the present Paper is a portion of a gland , which from the obscurity of its situation has hitherto escaped observation : and were it not for the change produced in it by disease , which enlarges it so much that it sometimes completely shuts up the canal , by which the urine ought to pass , it would be little deserving of attention : but when this important effect is considered , the part itself becomes an object of very serious interest .
In stating the circumstances , which led to the present investigation , it may be necessary to mention that the prostate gland is liable in the latter period of life to enlarge : and when it does so there is frequently a nipple-like projection , which rises up and forms tuinours of very different sizes in the cavity of the bladder .
These tumours , as they obstruct the passage of the urine , have attracted the attention of all anatomical surgeons , from the time of MORGAGNI to the present day .
Their appearance has been accurately described , and specimens of them in different degrees of enlargement are preserved in every collection of morbid parts .
The attention of surgeons has been naturally called to what is of the greatest consideration , the appearances they put on , and the symptoms they produce : but the particular circumstances in the natural conformation of the gland , which dispose it to form these tumours , have never been examined .
MORGAGNI says , " These caruncles were found to grow out in the very " middle of the upper and internal posterior circumference of " the gland ; but whether these things happened by chance or " otherwise future observations will show .
" * From these expressions , it is evident that MORGAGNI had no idea that there was any conformation of the prostate gland , that could account for this tumour , and believed that it arose from the surface of the body of the gland .
Mr. HUNTER , in treating of the enlargement of the prostate gland , says , " From the situation of the gland , which is prin"cipally on the two sides of the canal , and but little if at all " on the fore part , as also very little on the posterior side , " when it swells it can only be laterally ; whereby it presses " the two sides of the canal together , and at the same time " stretches it from the anterior edge or side to the posterior , " so that the canal instead of being round , is flattened into a s " narrow groove .
Sometimes the gland swells more on one " side than the other , which makes an obliquity in the canal " passing through it.- ' ' Besides this effect of the lateral parts swelling , a small " portion of it , which lies behind the very beginning of the " urethra swells forward like a point , as it were , into the " ' bladder ; acting like a valve to the mouth of the urethra , " which can be seen , even when the swelling is not consi ' derable , by looking on the mouth of the urethra , from the " ' cavity of the bladder , in the dead body .
It sometimes in"creases so much , as to form a tumour : projecting into the " cavity of the bladder some inches."* " From the first paragraph it is evident that Mr. HUNTER was unacquainted with this lobe ; and in the second we see that his knowledge of the disease led him to conclude , that in the natural state of the gland there was a portion of it in this situation : but neither atthat time , nor at any future period of his life , did he prosecute the inquiry .
Although a great part of my time has been for many years occupied in attending patients labouring under complaints of the bladder and urethra , and my opportunities of examining these parts after death have been very frequent , my attention has been always so much employed on the modes of emptying the bladder , ( an operation , which in many cases is attended with considerable difficulty , ) that it never occurred to me to institute an inquiry for the purpose of attaining an accurate Ht NTER on the Venereal Disease , page 169 , 197 knowledge of the extent of the disease until the month of December , 1805 .
At that time my attention was directed to this subject by the following circumstances .
In the examination of the prostate gland of an elderly person , who had died in consequence of this part having been diseased , the nipple-like process was found very prominent , and a bridle , nearly 4 of an inch in breadth , extended from the middle line of the tumour to the bulb of the urethra , where it insensibly disappeared .
The usual rounded projection of the caput gallinaginisw was not visible : it had wasted away , and the remains were concealed in the fold formingthis bridle , which at that part was not thicker than at any other .
The space between the tumour in the bladder , and the bulb of the urethra was unusually short , which is the reverse of what is commonly met with in old men ; so that this bridle appeared to have drawn the bulb towards the tumour , and shortened the membranous part of the canal .
As this was an unusual appearance , it led me to consider it with attention , and to ask if other anatomists had noticed it ; which as far as my inquiries have gone has not been the case .
The bridle had evidently been formed by the membrane of the bladder adhering firmly to that part of the prostate gland composing the tumour , which it consequently followed in its future increase , and drew up after it the membrane of the urethra .
In this way the fold had in time become nearly 4 of an inch broad , and was continued of the same breadth to the bulb , where the lining of the urethra being more attached to the surrounding parts , it did not admit of being ( drawn up , i98 This appearance of a bridle is more or less met with in all the cases , in which the nipple-formed process occurs , but in so much smaller a degree , and not continued beyond the caput gallinaginis , that it never before led me to pay attention to it .
To satisfy myself how this tumour was formed , it became necessary to examine the prostate gland in its natural state ; and ascertain whether there is any part sufficiently detached to move independent of the rest of the gland , and explain the appearances which had been met with in this particular case .
My professional avocations not affording time to make the dissections requisite for this purpose , Mr. BROD IE , Demonstrator of Anatomy to Mr. WILSON , Teacher of Anatomy , in Windmill-street , whose knowledge of the subject fitted him for the task , and whose zeal for the improvement of his profession made him willingly undertake it , gave me his assistance , and took the whole of that labour on himself .
While dissecting the parts for this purpose , the urinary bladder was distended with water , and the surfaces of the prostate gland , vesiculae seminales , and vasa deferentia , were fairly exposed .
This being done , the vasa deferentia , and vesiculae seminales were carefully dissected off from the bladder , without removing any other part .
These were turned down upon the body of the prostate gland .
An accurate dissection was then made of the circumference of the two posterior portions of the prostate gland , and the space between them was particularly examined .
In doing this a small rounded stIbstance was discovered , so mtch detached that it seemed a distinct gland , and so nearly resembling CoWPER 's glands in size and shape , as they appeared in the same subject , in which they were unusually large , that it appeared to be a gland of 199 that kind .
It could not however be satisfactorily separated from the prostate gland , nor could any distinctduct be found leading into the bladder .
A similar examination was made of this part in five different subjects .
The appearance was not exactly the same in any two of them .
In one there was no apparent glandular substance , but a mass of condensed cellular membrane : this , hlowever , on being cut into , differed from the surrounding fat .
In another there was a lobe blended laterally with the sides of the prostate gland .
These facts are mentioned in proof of its not being always of the same size nor having exactly the same appearance ; this is found also to be the case with COWPER'S glands , they are sometimes large and distinct ; in other subjects are scarcely to be detected , and in others again are in all the intermediate states .
The most distinct and natural appearance of this part was in a healthy subject 25 years of age , of which the following is an account .
On turning off the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales , exactly in the middle of the sulcus , between the two posterior portions of the prostate gland , there was a rounded prominent body , the base of which adhered to the coats of the bladder .
It was imbedded not only between the vasa deferentia and the bladder , but also in some measure between the lateral portions of the prostate gland and the bladder , since they were in part spread over it , so as to prevent its circumference from being seen , and they adhered so closely as to require dissection to remove them ; nor could this be done beyond a certain extent , after which the same substance was continued from the one to the other .
This proved it to be a lobe of the prostate gland , the middle of which had a rounded form , united to the gland at the base next the bladder , but rendered a separate lobe by two fissures on its opposite surface .
Its ducts passed directly through the coats of the bladder , on which it lay , and opened immediately behind the verumontanum .
By means of this lobe a circular aperture is formed in the prostate gland , which gives passage to the vasa deferentia .
The appearance of this lobe has been since examined in a subject 24 years of age , and it was found still larger and more distinct .
A representation of it is given in the annexed Plate .
Previous tothis investigation it was not known ; to me that any distinct portion of the prostate gland was situated between the vasa deferentia and the bladder .
These ducts were considered to pass in the sulcus between its two posterior portions , in close contact with the body of the gland .
This account corresponds also with the description given by WINSLOw and HALLER ; it is however now proved to be erroneous .
It is not .
in my power to determine whether all the anatomists of the present day have fallen into this error in the same degree .
with myself : but none of them have pointed out this lobe ; and , therefore , inwhatever way they have described the vasa deferentia to pass into the bladder , they have neither anticipated nor thrown any light on the present inquiry.* HALLER : says expressly , that " the prostate gland has no lobular appearance , " and the anxiety which all anatomists have to improve their ; art , would have led them to correct this error , had they discerned that &gt; it was one .
This newly acquired anatomical fact enables us very clearly , to understand the nature of a disease , which it was not possible we could have a correct idea of , when we were ignorant of the existence of the part in which it takes place .
It not only explains the situation of the tumour , the want of connection with the body of the gland , and the narrowness of its base where that is met with , but it solves what has ever appeared to me the greatest difficulty , how it should protrude into the cavity of the bladder .
This arises from the hard substance of the coats of the vasa deferentia being in close contact , and bound down upon this lobe , so that from its first enlargement it must immediately press up the inner membrane of the bladder , which can make very little resistance .
This lobe of the prostate gland , from its situation and connection with the vasa deferentia , is liable to many causes of swelling , which the body of the gland itself is free from ; for every irritation upon the seminal vessels or their orifices may be communicated to it by continuity of parts : and aged men , from an ignorance of these facts , are too often , through imprudence , producing an excitement in those vessels which the parts are unable to support ; and when this is long continued , inflammation becomes the consequence , which cannot take place to any degree without being communicated to this lobe , and producing an enlargement of it .
Every violent effort which is made to empty the urinary bladder produces an unusual pressure against this lobe , by which it may be injured .
There is also much reason for believing , that the diseased state of the lateral parts of the gland , so very commonly met with in the latter period of life , has its origin in this particular lobe ; since in most of the cases of a diseased state of the gland , which have come under my observation after death , this lobe has been enlarged in a greater degree in proportion to its size than any other part ; and in some instances the enlargement of it has been very great , while it appeared to be only beginning in the lateral portions .
Difficulty in passing the urine is a symptom , which comes on very early in diseases of the prostate gland , and arises entirely from this lobe being increased in size , since any enlargement in the lateral portions of the gland widens the canal instead of diminishing it , and they do not require much force to separate them ; but the least increase of this lobe tends to shut it upon The enlargement of this lobe produces an effect which is not generally known , and leads medical practitioners into an error respecting the nature of the complaint .
The orifice of the urinary bladder , which is the lowest part in the natural state , is raised up in proportion to the increase of this lobe ; so that none of the contents below that level can be expelled , although whatever is above it is allowed with more or less difficulty to pass out .
In this way the person never evacuates more than one half or one third of the urine contained in the bladder ; but as the water which comes away passes in a stream , and the quantity voided in 24 hours is sufficient , no suspicion is entertained of the cause of the frequency and distress in passing it , and the symptoms are referred to an irritable state of the coats of the bladder .
It is only by drawing off the urine through a catheter that the disease in this lobe can be ascertained ; as in that way alone the quantity of urine which is retained can be determined .
No examination per anum can give the surgeon any information on this subject ; since the posterior surface of the vasa deferentia only is to be felt , if the finger should reach so far ; and yet it is in this way that practitioners in general pretend to judge of the greater or .
Dd X 2a03 less degree of the disease , although that portion of the gland , which forms the most important part of the complaint is wholly out of their reach .
The least projection of this lobe into the bladder stretches the internal membrane of that viscus which passes over it , keeps it in a state of irritation , and makes it liable to be grasped by the action of the sphincter muscle in expelling the last drops of urine , so as to give the patient excruciating pain .
When it is more enlarged these symptoms go off .
From these observations it appears , that this small lobe of the prostate gland , which has been overlooked , is from the situation and the circumstances , in which it is placed more liable to become diseased than any other part of the gland , and produces symptoms of danger and distress peculiar to itself , which have been hitherto supposed to arise from the body of the gland becoming enlarged .
To enter further into the effects of disease on this lobe would be improper on the present occasion ; but not to have noticed them at all would have been equally so , since the only importance , that can be attached to the facts , which have been brought forward in this Paper , arises from the light they throw on the diseases of the prostate gland .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE .
( Plate III .
) A posterior view of the outside of the bladder and prostate gland .
The vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia are dissected off and turned forwards , to show the newly discovered lobe , which lies between them and the bladder .
The two posterior parts of the lateral portions are spread open to expose the lobe lying between them .

