" On certain Properties of Prime Numbers .
" By the Right Hon. Sir Frederick Pollock , M.A. , F.R.S. , Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer , &amp;c. The author of this paper , after noticing Wilson 's Theorem , ( published by Waring about the year 1770 , without any proof ) , which theorem is that , if A be a prime number , 1 .
2 .
3 ... .
( A-1)+ 1 is divisible by A ; refers to Lagrange 's and Euler 's demonstrations , and mentions Gauss 's extension of the theorem , to any number , not prime ; provided that instead of ' 1 , 2 , 3 , &amp;c. ( Ai ) , those numbers only be taken which are prime to A , and 1 be either added or subtracted .
This theorem was published by Gauss without a proof in 1801 , with a rule as to the cases in which 1 is to be added or subtracted , the correctness of which is questioned by the author , who proceeds to propound the following theorem , which he had previously , for distinctness , divided'into three .
If any number , prime or not , be taken , and the numbers prime to it , and less than one half of it be ascertained , and those be rejected whose squares +1 are equal to the prime number , or some multiple of it ( which may be more than one ) , then the product of the remaining primes ( if any ) , ยง 1 shall be divisible by the prime number .
He gives as examples , 14 , the primes to which , and less than one half , are 1 , 3 , 5 , and 1.3 .
5=15 ; therefore 1 .
3.5--1-14 ; also 15 , the primes to which and less , are 1 , 2 , 4 , 7 ; but 4 x4=16 =15+1 ; therefore 4 is to be rejected , and 1 .
2 .
7+1-1 =15 .
The author adds another theorem , that if A be a prime number , all the odd numbers less than it ( rejecting as before ) ; also , all the even numbers ( making the same rejection except A--1 ) will , multiplied together , be equal to A+ 1 .
The author then proceeds to prove Gauss 's extension of Wilson 's theorem , and to give the cases in which 1 is to be added or subtracted ; and in the course of the proof , he mentions that the numbers prime to any number not only are found in pairs , one greater and one less than one-half of the number , but that they associate themselves in sets of four , with an odd pair in certain cases .
Thus , the primes to 7 are 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6,2 x 4=8=7+ 1 .
Put the complemental numbers underneath crosswise , thus , -2 x4 / \ 3x5 so that 2+5 and 4+3 may equal 7 ; and then x5=15=2x7+1 2x3= 6=7-1 4x5=20=3x7--1 Multiplied together one way the product exceeds 7 , or a multiple of it , by 1 ; multiplied the other way , the product is less than 7 , or some multiple of it , by 1 .
By assuming the prime number to be A , and the two primes to it to bep , q , and that p+q be not equal to A , but pq=nA+_l , it is shown that the complemental primes ( A-q ) and ( A-p ) will have a product=-nA+l , and that , instead of 1 , the number may be any other prime to A. Upon this foundation the author proceeds to show that Wilson 's theorem , and also Gauss 's , may be made much more general ; that if A be a prime number , as 7 , the numbers less than it may be arranged in pairs , not only with reference to 1 , but to any number less than 7 .
Take I as an example:1 x 3=7-4 x 6=4x77-4 2x 5=2 x7--4 therefore 1.2.3.4.5 .
6=7n-43 ; therefore ].2.3.4.5.6 + 43 -7n ; that is , is divisible by 7 .
The same is then shown as to numbers not prime , provided those numbers alone are taken , which are prime to it , and the number of pairs will be half the number of primes .
The general theorem therefore is this:-If A be any number , prime or not , and m be the number of primes to it , which are 1 , p , q , r , &amp;c. ; then 1.p.q.r , &amp;c. , +Z2 will be divisible by A , provided Z be prime to A , whether it be greater or less .
It follows from this that zi+ 1 must be divisible by A , and therefore that z -1 must be divisible by A. If A be a prime number and za number prime to it ( which every number not divisible by it is ) , this is Fermat 's theorem , and the author has given a new proof of it .
But the tleorem is true though A be not a prime number , provided z be prime to A and m be the number of primes to A , and less than it ; and instead of 1 , any other number prime to A raised to the rth power may be substituted : and zi'-y"r will be divisible by A , provided z and y be primes to A , and m be the number of primes to A and less than it .
The author has therefore in this paper offered a proof of Gauss 's theorem , and proved that it applies in certain cases to one half of the primes , and in all cases , with certain modifications , has shown that a similar property belongs to the product of the odd numbers , and also of the even numbers which precede any prime number ; and lastly , has shown the intimate connexion between Wilson 's theorem and Fermat 's , and shown that each is but a part of a much more general proposition , which , he observes , may itself turn out to be part only of a still more universal one .
In a postscript , the author has shown that the well-known law of reciprocity of prime numbers is an immediate corollary from his theorem ; and that it may be extended thus : if A and B be any two numbers ( not prime numbers but ) prime to each other , and the primes to A , and less than it , are ( m ) in number , and the similar primes to B are ( n ) , then ( A--1 ) is divisible by B , and ( Bm--1 ) is divisible by A.

