The following papers were read : 1 .
" On the Extension of the Principle of Feormat 's Theorem of the Polygonal Numbers to the higher orders of series whose ultimate differences are constant .
Wiith a new Theorem proposed , applicable to all the Orders .
" By Sir Frederick Pollock , Lord Chief Baron , F.R.S. The object of this paper professes to be to ascertain whether the principle of Fermat 's theorem of the polygonal numbers may not be extended to all orders of series whose ultimate differences are constant .
The polygonal numbers are all of the quadratic form , and they have ( according to Fermat 's theorem ) this property , that every number is the sum of not exceeding , 3 terms of the triangular numbers , 4 .
of the square numbers , 5 of the pentagonal nunbers , &amp;c. It is stated in this paper that the series of the odd squares 1,9 , 25 , 4,9 , &amp; c , has a similar property , and that every number is the sum of not exceeding 10 odd squares .
It is also stated , that a series consisting of the 1st and every succeeding 3rd term of the triangular series , viz. 1 , 10 , 28 , 35 , &amp;c. , has a similar property ; and that every number is the sum of not exceeding 11 terms of this last series , and that this may be easily proved [ it was proved in a former paper by the same author ] .
The term " Notation-limit " is applied to the number which denotes the largest number of terms of a series necessary to express any number ; and the writer states that 5 , 7 , 9 , 13 , 21 are respectively the notation-limits of the tetrahedral numbers , the octohedral , the cubical , the eicosahedral and the dodecahedral numbers ; that 19 is the notation-limit of the series of the 4th powers ; that 11 is the notation-limit of the series of the triangular numbers squared , viz. 1 , 9 , 36 , 100 , &amp;c. , and 31 the notation-limit of the series 1 , 28 , 153 , &amp;c. ( the sum of the odd cubes ) , whose general expression is 2n4--n2 The paper next contains an extension of the theorem 8n +3 S-3 odd squares , which was proved by Legendre in his Theory des Nombres ; every odd square equals 8 times a triangular No. -1 ; the theorem therefore is-8 times any term in the figurate series ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , &amp;c. . .
) +3=3 terms of a series consisting of the next series , viz. ( 1 , 3 , 6 , 10. .
&amp;c. ) , multiplied by 8 with 1 prefixed , and also added to each term .
But it is stated that this theorem may be much extended ; for this is not only true of any two consecutive series , but generally if F , represent any figurate number of the xth order , and Ft any figurate number of the yth order , whether y be greater or less than x , 8F , + 3=3 , or ( 3 + 8 ) , or ( 32.8 ) , or ... ( 3 + 8 ) , &amp;c. , terms of a series whose general expression is 8F + 1 ; and still further ( provided p be greater than 2)pF , + 3=3 , or ( 3 +p ) , or ( 3+ ?
p ) , or ( 3+ p ) , terms of a series whose general expression is pFy + 1 , and vice versed .
The author concludes from these considerations , that probably there are many theorems which are common to all the orders .
The following theorem is then proposed as having that character .
If the terms of a series be 1 , or ( 1 + ) ?
, ( 1 + , ( 1 +n ) , ( 1 ) ... &amp; C. ( 1 + ) ' , the 1st ( +1 ) terms of ( 1 +f'p+ the 1st ( p+1 ) terms of ( 1 +n)p+2 the 1st ( p + ) terms of ( 1 +n)+3 + &amp;c. &amp;c. ( if p and n be both not less than 1 ) , any number will be the sum of not exceeding ( pn + 1 ) terms of the series ; in other words , pn -1 is the notation-limit of this series .
It is manifest that this series is of such a form , that by varying n andp , it is capable of expressing every possible arithmetical series , also every possible geometrical series ( each having I for the first term ) ; it will also express all the intermediate series of the successive orders ( to an indefinite extent ) , which exist between and connect together by a regular gradation ( as is well known ) any such arithmetical series with a geometric series , whose common ratio is the 2nd term of both series .
The theorem may be stated without the series thus : If any geometric series ( having I for its first term ) and ( 1 +n ) for its common ratio , be stayed at the ( p+ l)th term and discontinued as a geometric series , but be continued from that term as an arithmetic series of thepth order , by forming it with the pth difference as the constant difference , and the other differences ( which will be x , x2 , x3 , &amp;c. ... x. ' ) .
The resulting series will be the series stated in the theorem above , and any number may be formed by not exceeding ( pn + 1 ) terms , that is ( pn+l ) will be the notation-limit of the series ; if p becomes indefinitely great , the limit of the series is a geometrical series , and it would become capable of expressing any number according to a system of notation whose base or local value would be ( 1 +n ) .
The proof of the theorem seems to depend upon this , that the notation-limit assigned by the theorem is actually the notation-limit of all the geometric terms and one more , at least , while the geometric terms alone fix the law of the series and ascertain its elements ( that is , the first term and the successive differences ) ; and as the combinations necessary to enable the series to fulfil its law , and carry on the notation that belongs to it , are regulated by the series next below it , viz. by the first rank of differences , while the supply of new combinations ( as the series advances and the number of terms that may be used increases ) is indicated by even a higher series than itself , the new combinations are always greater , and at length indefinitely greater , than the number required .
If therefore within the range of those terms that ascertain and fix the law of the series the law of its notation-limit can be obeyed , it must always ( afortiori ) be obeyed as the series proceeds to a greater number of terms and to a variety of combinations increasing in a higher ratio ; and the series will furnish the numbers requisite to carry on the notation by the new and more numerous combinations which must of necessity be of the same numerical kind with those which have preceded them .
It is shown at length , that the new combinations , as the series advances , do actually increase in an increasing proportion compared with the numbers required .

