2 .
" On certain Properties of Square Numbers and other Quadratic Forms , with a Table by which all the odd numbers up to 9211 may be resolved into not exceeding four square numbers , " By Sir Frederick Pollock , F.R.S , &amp;c. Received Dec. 20 , 1853 .
In examining the properties of the triangular numbers 0 , 1 , 3 , 6 10 , &amp;c. , the author observed that every triangular numberwas composed of four triangular numbers , viz. three times a triangular num ' ber plus the one above it or below it ; and he found that all the natural numbers in the interval between anytwo consecutive triangular numbers might be composed of four triangular numbers having the sum of their roots , or rather of the indices of their distances from the first term of the series constant , viz. the sum of the indices of the four triangular numbers which compose the first triangular number of the two .
Not being at that time aware of any law by which the series that fills up the intervals could be continued , he subsequently turned his attention to the square numbers as apparently presenting a greater variety of theorems .
He observed that if any four square numbers , a2 , b ' , c ?
, ' dq , have their roots such , that , by making one or more positive and the rest negative , the sum of the roots may be equal to 1 , then if the root or roots of which the sum is 1 less be each of them increased by 1 , and the others or other be each diminished by 1 , the sum of the squares of the roots thus increased or diminished will be a2+ b+ c2 + d2 + 2 .
This he found to be only a particular case:of more general theorems .
Theorem A.-If the sum of the roots a , b , c , d=2-n-1 , and n be added to each of the less set , 'and subtracted from each of the greater , the increase in the sum of the squares of the new roots will be 2n .
Theorem B.-If the sum of the roots =2n+ 1 , and n be added to each of the less set and subtracted from each of the greater , the diminution in the sum of the squares of the new roots will be 2n .
By-means of these he showsTheorem C.-If any four squares be assumed which compose an odd number , these may be diminished till four squares are attained the sum of whose roots will equal 1 .
By applying the first of these theorems to four roots , the sum of whose squares is an odd number , the author deduces , in a tabular form , the squares ( four or-less ) which compose the odd numbers from 21 to 87 ; and remarks that there does not appear to be any limit to this mode of continuing to increase the sum of four squares by 2 each time .
As , however , although this may render it probable that every odd number is composed of four , three , or two squares , it falls very short of a mathematical proof , unless it can be shown that the series can be continued by some inherent property belonging to it , he proceeds to examine the series , in order to ascertain what approach can be made to such a proof .
Adopting a method similar to that observed in the triangular numbers , the author forms what he terms the series of Gradation , by means of which the series of squares which compose the odd numbers may be advanced by steps or stages which increase regularly and obey a certain law , and at which this series is , as it were , commenced anew from roots of the form n , n , n , n+ 1 , or n , n , n , n ; the form of the sum of the squares of these roots being 4n2 2n + 1 , and the series of gradation 1 , 3 , 7 , 13 , 21 , 31 , 43 , 57 , 73 , &amp;c. On this princille a more extended table of the odd numbers resolved into squares ( not exceeding four in number ) is constructed .
On this the author remarks that it is complete to the 96th odd number ( 191 ) , that is , there are in this table square numbers which will form the odd numbers in succession , whose roots ( some + , some - ) -1 ; and therefore the expression 4n + 2n +1 up to 4n + 2n + 191 may be divided into 4 or 3 squares , whatever be the value of n. The numbers in the table exactly fill up the interval between 47 , 472 , 472 , 482=--931 , and 472 , 48 " , 482 , 482=9121 , whose difference ==190 , the difference between the first term and the last term in the table : it will therefore resolve into square numbers any odd number up to 9121+ 190=9211 .
With reference to the mode in which the intervals in the table may bet filled up , the author states the following general theorems relating to the sums of three square numbers , by means of which the roots may be varied , and yet the sum of the squares remain the same .
Theorem D.-If any three terms of an arithmetical series , and omitting the 4th term , the three following terms be arranged thus , a+b , a+ 2b , a +6b , a , a+4b , a+5b , the sum of the squares of each set of terms will be the same .
Theorem E.--If four numbers in arithmetical progression be placed thus , , a+ 2b , a+4b , a+6b , and the sum of the 1st and 4th be divided into two parts whose difference shall be four times the arithmetic ratio , as a+7b(a-b ) , and the parts be placed with the terms , the greater with the less , and the less with the greater , thus , a , a+2b , a+7b , a-b , a+4b , a+6b , the sum of the squares will be equal .
Theorem F.-Let two numbers which differ by 2n be placed thus : a+n , a+-n , a-n , a-n , then if the sum of the four ( 4a ) be divided so as to have the same difference ( 2n ) , and the parts be placed , the less with the greater , and the greater with the less , thus , a +n , a +n , 2a--n , an , an , 2a +n , the sum of the squares shall be the same .
The author illustrates this part of the subject by deducing six forms of roots whose squares =197 .

