I. " On the Mysteries of Numbers alluded to by Fermat."-Second Communication .
By the Right lion .
Sir FREDERICK POLLOCK , Bart. , F.R.S. Received January 14,1868 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is not adapted to be read in extenso ; so much of it is connected with mere calculation , so much more of it requires continual reference to diagrams , that no adequate knowledge of its contents would be acquired by merely hearing it read aloud ; but a statement has been prepared of what it contains which will give a general view of the result .
The properties ascribed to all odd numbers , in addition to those contained in Fermat 's theorem , are these:-lst .
The algebraic sum of the roots in some form of the 4 squares which compose the number will equal 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , &amp;c. ( every odd number which it is large enough to produce ) ; 2ndly , the difference between some 2 of the roots will be any odd or even number whatever , subject to the same limitation .
1357 9 The series 1 , 3 , 7 , 13 , &amp;c. ( n , n , n , n+l ) will give 1 , 3 , 5 , &amp;c. as the sum 246 8 of the roots of its terms ; and each term is the smallest that will give that 13 57 amount .
So 1 , 5 , 13 , 25 , &amp;c. is the series whose terms are the smallest that 48 12 16 give the odd numbers as a difference of the roots , and 1 , 3 , 9 , 19 , &amp;c. that 26 10 give the even numbers .
And these are the three series that compose The Square ( the subject of the last paper ) when the 1st term is 1 ; and they are the cause of its properties .
A portion of the paper is devoted to an investigation of the change effected in the sum of the squares , by a change in the roots .
If 2 roots differ by n , they may be represented by a and a+ n ; and if the smaller be diminished by 1 , and the larger increased by I , the sum of the squares is increased by 2n+2 ; if n=0 , the difference is 2 ; and it becomes 4 , 6 , 8 , &amp;c. as n becomes 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , &amp;c. On the other hand , if the smaller root be increased and the larger diminished by 1 , the sum of the squares becomes less by 2n-2 .
2A A similar property belongs to all polygonal numbers ; in the trigonal the increase is ... ... ... ... . .
n+ 1 , in the square it is ... ... ... .
2n + 2 , in the pentagonal ... ... ... .
3n+ 3 , and in the m-gonal ... ... ... .
n+m .
When the reverse operation takes place and the sum of the squares is diminished , the + ( plus ) in the above expressions becomes(minus ) .
There are some other modes mentioned also in dealing with the roots so as to increase the sum of the squares by 2 , although there be not two of the roots which are equal .
A proof is offered , by means of a supplemental square decreasing as the other increases , that if every number up to 2n 1 has the properties of odd numbers above enumerated , then the number 2n +3 will also possess them ; and if this be so , then every subsequent odd number will likewise possess them .
This is a mode of proof not unfrequent in mathematical:investigations : it cannot be abbreviated ; but it may be useful to state that the proof chiefly arises from this , that if one term of a series corresponds with the law of it , then every term will do so , and in all the series but two there will be one term obedient to the law which renders all the rest so ; the other two series are treated differently .
It is shown that if a term , in the series 1 , 3 , 7 , &amp;c. , whose terms ( represented in the roots of the 4 squares of which they are the sum ) will be n , n , n ( n+ 1 ) be increased by 2 , the roots being altered in the manner described above , the operation may be carried on till one of the terms becomes zero ( 0 ) ; but the next term in the series will be reached before that occurs .
Then the next term may be taken as the beginning of another similar operation , and may go on till another term is reached , and so on without end .
In this way the 4 squares into which any odd numbers may be divided will be obtained ; and if every odd number is divisible into 4 squares , every even number will be so likewise .
The next subject is considered the most material and important in the paper , because it connects Lagrange 's proof of the square numbers with The Square ( the subject of the last paper ) .
Euler thought that no assistance could be derived from the proof of Lagrange as to the other branches of the theorem ( see Euler , ' Opuscula Analytica , ' vol. ii .
p. 4 ) .
But if every odd number is composed of 4 squares or less , then a number of the form 4n+ 2 must be composed of 2 , 3 , or 4 squares , and in any of these cases n ( any number ) will be equal to 4 trigonal numbers , which is shown in the paper .
The expression a'+a +6 ' has been proved in a former paper of the author to be a general expression for any 2 trigonal numbers ; and if any number is composed of 4 trig , onal numbers or less , a'+ a+ b2+ m +m + nwill represent any number whatever , odd or even , and 2a + 2a + 2b 2m + 2 ' 2im + 2n2 will represent any even number .
This connects Lagrange 's proof of the squares with T/ he Square , which is the subject of the last paper ; and if a series be composed of squares and double trigonal numbers beginning with nothing , and having differences 2 , 2 , 4 , 4 , 6 , 6 , 25 8 , 8 , &amp;c. , the series will be 2 , 4 , 8 , 12 , 18 , &amp;c. , and any even number will be made with some 4 terms of the series .
Now The Square , the subject of the last paper , has a property not noticed in the former paper , viz. that the first term of The Square , supposing it to be of the form 4n+3 , will be increased in descending down the principal diagonal into the sum of the squares of the roots n , n+ 1 , n+ 1 , n+ 1 , into which the number itself may be divided ; and if the form of the number be 4n +1 , a term which is the sum of the roots n , n , n , n+ 1 ( into which 4n+ 1 may be divided ) would appear in the diagonal next below the principal diagonal ; and as every odd number is of the form of either 4n2+3 , or 4n+ 1 , this applies to every possible odd number , and each of these numbers is a term in the series already mentioned , 1 , 3 , 7 , 13 , &amp;c. , and which may be increased by any even number by means of the series 2b2 , 2a2+ 2a , and so on .
This , it is shown in the paper , may be so altered as to correspond with the index of some number in the principal diagonal of the square , or the one below it , and will therefore ascend to the first term in The Square , and give the sum of its roots equal to 1 ; and therefore ( 4n 3-1 ) divided by 2 will be composed of 3 trigonal numbers , and in the other case ( 4n+1--1 ) is divided by 2 ; that is , every odd and every even number is composed of 3 trigonal numbers .
If this be so , Fermat 's theorem of the trigonal numbers is proved from the case of the squares , which ( it is believed ) has not been done before ; but this leads to other conclusions , which are shown in the paper .
If 1 be the first term of The Square , every term in it will have its roots of the squares that compose it of the form + 1 , a , 6 , 6 , and the term itself will be composed of two trigonal numbers ; but if each of these be made the first term of a square , every odd number will be found in some of the resulting squares ; and it is shown that every odd number not only is of the form 1 -2a2 + 2a 2b2 2n2-+ 2m 2n2 , but also of the form 1 +2a2 +2a + 2b2 2 2m2 + 2m , or 1 2a2 + 2a + 2b2 + 2n2 ; so that , with rerespect to every odd number , two of the squares that compose it may be equal , and also two may have their roots differing by 1 .
There remains one other matter to be mentioned , viz. a certain remarkable relation which all the polygonal numbers bear to each other , and which forms a connexion that runs through them all , from which it would seem to follow that a solution of the theorem as to one would be a solution as to all the rest ( except the first ) .
This relation arises in the square numbers by a property of the gradation series , already in part alluded to , viz. , as to the odd numbers , by which the interval between any two terms can be filled up , all the terms having , as to the odd numbers , the sum of the roots of the squares that compose them equal to the sum of the roots of the first term ; but the intervals , as to the even numbers , may be also filled up by making the sum of the roots one less than that of the roots of the odd numbers ( see the Table in Diagram No. 3 , which is thus constructed ) .
A term in the gradation series is assumed ( in this case 73 ) ; its roots are 4 , 4 , 4 , 5 ; and the roots of all the odd numbers alluded to by Fermat .
1868 .
] 253 between that and the next term are found by the processes mentioned in the former part of this paper .
The roots of the even numbers are then obtained by an analogous process ; and these are used as bases or roots of the polygonal numbers , which are placed in columns , with their sums , as appears in the Table ( see Diagram No. 4 for the mode in which the polygonal numbers are formed ) .
It will be observed that the sum of the roots or bases is 17 ; but if they be used to form trigonal numbers , the increment of the sum of the resulting trigonal numbers above the sum of the roots or bases is 28 , and so on of the rest , each successive column increasing by the same number , viz. 28 .
If the roots or bases be n , n , n , n1 ( that is , a term in the gradation series ) , the increment of the sums of the successive columns will be 2n2 n , a trigonal number .
Again , in the trigonal numbers the difference between the sums of the first and second term is 0 ; in the square numbers it is 1 ; in the pentagonal numbers 2 ; in the hexagonal numbers 3 ; in the heptagonal numbers 4 ; but in all of them the difference between the second and third terms is 1 , and this continues throughout .
The difference between the third and fourth , the fifth and sixth , the seventh and eighth , &amp;c. , increases by 1 in each column ; but the difference between the second and third , the fourth and fifth , the sixth and seventh , &amp;c. , is always 1 in each column ; and the result is that , by adding 1 in the pentagonal column , by adding 1 , or 1.1 in the hexagonal , by adding 1 , or 1.1 , or 1.1.1 in the heptagonal , every number , odd or even , can be made by not exceeding four square numbers , or five pentagonal numbers , or , &amp;c. , as clearly appears by the Table .
This corresponds with what was discovered by Cauchy , published at the end of Legendre 's 'Theorie des Nombres , ' viz. that four only of each class of numbers is necessary ; the rest may be supplied by 1 repeated as often as necessary .
But I must not omit to say that , although all the odd numbers are sufficiently obedient , there is one class of even numbers quite refractory , viz. the powers of 2 .
They may be easily expressed in squares , pentagonal numbers , &amp;c. , but they cannot be brought within the rule that otherwise prevails .

