XIV .
" Account of the Construction of the New National Standard of Length , and of its principal Copies .
" By G. B. AIRY , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received May 2 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The author premises that the work to which this account relates was executed almost entirely by Mr. Bailey and Mr. Sheepshanks .
He then proceeds with the Account , which is divided under nine Sections .
Section I. contains the History of the British and of some Foreign Standards , and of the methods of using them in Base-measures and Pendulum-measures , anterior to the legalization of the Imperial Standards by the Act of Parliament of 1824 ; the definition of the Standard of Length by that Act ; and the provision for its restoration in case of loss .
The first record cited is that of the laying down of the English Standard Yard on the Royal Society 's brass bar , described in the Philosophical Transactions , 1742-3 ; then allusion is made to the comparisons by Graham , Maskelyne , Ray , Shuckburgh , those of the Base du Systeme MIetrique , and those by Kater ( 1818 and 1821 ) .
The Sections of the Act of Parliament of 1824 , which define the British Yard and prescribe the method for restoring it in case of loss , by reference to the length of the Seconds ' Pendulum , are cited .
Section II .
gives some description of the Comparisons of Standards made between the passing of the Act of 1824 and the appointment of a Commission for consideration of Standards after the destruction of the Imperial Standard in 1834 ; with remarks suggested by the advance of collateral theory and experiment in that interval .
Extracts are given from Kater 's papers of 1826 , 1830 , and 1831 , in which new difficulties were described and new constructions planned to obviate them .
Allusion is made to the characteristics of the principal Base-measures in Britain and on the Continent .
The constructions of the Ordnance Standard Bars and of the Royal Astronomical Society 's Tubular Scale are described , and reference is made to the accounts of their comparisons .
Bessel 's measure of the seconds ' pendulum , Bessel 's construction of the Prussian 3-foot standard , and Bessel 's and Sabine 's investigation of the atmospheric correction to the vibrations of the pendulum , are noticed .
The result of the Astronomer Royal 's inquiry into the points of support of a bar proper for preventing extension of its upper surface by its flexure is given .
The state of the science of Standards in the year 1834 is then described as follows .
It had been shown that it was imprudent to trust to.points or lines traced on the surface of a bar , and therefore , supposing the Standard to be a line-measure , only two lines or points ought to be used , sunk to the middle of the bar 's thickness .
It had been shown that it was imprudent to lay the bar upon a table or upon fixed supports of any kind , and therefore the bar must be stiff enough to bear to be supported upon a few points at which rollers could be conveniently applied .
It had been shown that the physical reference provided in the Act of Parliament of 1824 was erroneous in one particular and doubtful in another ; and , as it seemed likely that similar uncertainties might be found in any other physical reference , the conviction was gradually rising that it would be better to trust , for restoration , to attested copies of the Standard .
The question of the propriety of adopting line-measure or end-measure for the National Standard , which in this country had been practically decided ( without a single opposing instance as regarded accurate standards ) in favour of line-measure , had again been raised by Bessel 's adoption of end-measure .
On 1834 , October 16 , occurred the fire at the Houses of Parliament , in which the Standards were destroyed .
Section III .
records the appointment of the Treasury Commission of 1838 , its proceedings and Report ; the appointment of the Treasury Commission of 1843 , and its proceedings to the death of Mr. Bailey in 1844 .
The Report of the first Commission recommended the adoption of a material Standard , without any reference to physical experiment ; and recommended that four copies should be made , of which one should be immured in a wall of a public building , that the new Standard should , by means of bars which had been compared with the old Standard , be made as nearly as possible equal in length to the old Standard , and that the superintendence of the construction should be entrusted to a Committee .
These recommendations were adopted by the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury , and led to the appointment of the second or Superintending Committee , and to the appointment of Mr. Bailey as immediate manager of the work .
Mr. Bailey made experiments on the fitness of different alloys , and fixed upon a hard bronze or gun-metal as best for the Standards .
He then repeated some of Kater 's experiments ; made experiments on the thermometrical expansion of different metals ; compared the various bars on which the restoration of the Standard must depend ; and proved that the Royal Astronomical Society 's tubular scale was not worthy of entire credit as a means of restoring the length of the old Standard .
Mr. Baily 's death interrupted these inquiries .
Generally , however , it appeared that it would be very undesirable to refer in any degree to Shuckburgh 's scale ( adopted by Kater as the Scientific Standard ) , inasmuch as there was no security whatever that , in retaining documentary or numerical expressions of measure founded on this scale , we were referring to a consistent system ; that the old legal Standard was , through a sensible range , indeterminate ; that the new Standard must be firm in its structure ; that firm comparing-apparatus must be used , and that new thermometers must be constructed .
Section IV .
records the proceedings of the Committee and of Mr. Sheepshanks ( who , after the death of Mr. Bailey , undertook the construction of the Standard of Length ) to June 1847 ; the construction of new Thermometers ; the erection of the massive Comparing Apparatus in the cellar of the Royal Astronomical Society at Somerset House , with a description of the Apparatus and of Mr. Sheepshanks 's method of comparing .
Section V. describes the proceedings of Mr. Sheepshanks to the middle of 1 850 ; the preparations of Thermometers ; the discussion of the values of the scales compared with the old Standard ; the successive adoption and rejection of " Brass 2 , " " Split-plug A , " and " Bronze 12 , " as Basis for the new Standard ; the final adoption of " Bronze 28 ; " experiments on thermometric expansion ; and first suspicion of personal equation .
Section VI .
gives an account of the operations of important character to the end of 1853 ; comparisons of a small number of bars with Bronze 28 ; investigation of personal equation ; investigation of the effect of inside or outside position of the bar ; investigation of the relative thermometric expansion of steel , wrought iron , cast iron , copper , and brass , as compared with bronze ; trial and rejection of Baily 's apparatus .
The whole of this work is of the most elaborate kind .
Section VII .
gives the results of comparisons of numerous bars , from 1851 to 1855 , and describes the grounds for suspicion of change in Bronze 28 , and the removal of the suspicion .
Mr. Sheepshanks 's death occurred at the end of the observations relating to the suspected change ; and the operations on bars , defining the yard by line-measure , were closed .
Section VIII .
gives an account of the formation of End-measure Bars , which had been begun by Mr. Sheepshanks , but was completed by Mr. Simms , under the superintendence of the Astronomer Royal .
The general principle is this .
If two end-bars have each a defining mark almost equally distant , in the two bars , from the middle of its length ; and if the two bars are placed end to end , the longer segment of the one touching the shorter segment of the other , the distance between the two lines can be compared , by microscopes , with a line-standard .
If the contacts be now made by the other ends , a similar comparison can be made .
If the two results be added together , we have a comparison of the sum of the entire lengths of the two end-standards with double the length of the line-standard .
This operation being performed , so as to effect a comparison of the three pairs which can be made from three end-standards ( the sum of each pair being compared with the double line-standard ) , we have three simple equations from which the lengths of the three endstandards can be deduced .
The end-bars are constructed , some of bronze , some of iron or steel ; but in all , the ends are of agate , ground to the curvature of a large sphere , whose centre is the middle point of the bar .
The lengths of three bronze end-bars , and of four iron or steel end-bars , were determined by this process .
Section IX .
gives a statement of the closing proceedings of official character , with extracts from the Final Report of the Commission , and extracts from the Act of Parliament legalizing the new Standard ; a table of standard temperatures for the compared bars ; and an account of the disposal of the bars .
The Act of Parliament ( 18 ?
and 19 ?
Victorise , cap. 72 ) recognizes the Bar deposited at the Exchequer Office , and numbered 1 , as bearing " the genuine Standard of that measure of length called a Yard , " and recognizes four copies as available for restoration of the Standard in case of loss .
These copies are : No. 2 , deposited at the Royal Mint ; No. 3 , in charge of the Royal Society ; No. 4 , immured in the Cill of the Recess on the East Side of the Lower Waiting Hall in the New Palace at Westminster ; and No. 5 , deposited at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
The whole number of bars accurately compared is 78 .
Of these , four tubular scales were not the property of the British Government ; seven are end-measures ; all the remainder are line-measures .
They have been distributed liberally to foreign Governments and to British Offices ; several , however , remain at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , still disposable .
The whole of the documents relating to the preparation and comparison of the Standards are preserved at the Royal Observatory .

