XVII .
" Discussion of the observed Deviations of the Compass in several Ships , Wood-built and Iron-built ; with General Tables for facilitating the examination of Compass-deviations .
" By G. B. AIRY , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received June 2 , 1855 .
The author refers , in the first place , to his paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1839 , on the Disturbance of the Compass in Iron Ships , for a theory of the forces produced by the transient induced magnetism of iron .
Using the term " polar-magnet-deviation " to express a deviation similar to that which would be produced by a magnetized steel bar partaking of the movements of the ship ; and using the term " quadrantal deviation " for a deviation following the law of the sine of double the azimuth , and thus having , if " positive , " the signs + +-in the four successive quadrants of azimuth , or , if " negative , " the signs ++ in the four successive quadrants : then it appears that the deviation produced by the transient induced magnetism of a ship will consist of two parts ; of which one will be a " polar-magnet-deviation , " such as would be produced by a magnetized steel bar whose axis is parallel to the keel of the ship , and whose absolute intensity is proportional to the terrestrial vertical force at the place ; and the other will be a " quadrantal deviation , " which , in angular deviation , will be absolutely the same in all magnetic latitudes and with all magnitudes of terrestrial magnetic force , and will usually be " positive .
" Now combining these forces with the force of the " subpermanent magnetism " of a ship , which in its nature is essentially similar to the magnetism of a steel bar , and would therefore , if isolated , produce " polar-magnet-deviation ; " and remarking that the combination of two polar-lmagnet-forces will produce a third polar-magnet-force , the resulting ( leviations of which will be " p)olar-magnet-deviations ; " it is evident that the analysis of the observed deviations of the compass in any given instance will consist in resolving them into two systems , one of which follows the laws of " polar-magnet-deviation , " and the other is a " quadrantal deviation .
" The practical solution of this problem , without the assistance of tables , is troublesome .
In order to diminish the difficulty , the author has prepared a Table of polar-magnet-deviations , for the whole circumference as regards azimuths , and for all values of " modulus " or proportion of the disturbing force to the earth 's horizontal force , up to 0'8 .
To discover the elements of " polar-magnet-deviation , " that is , the neutral point and the modulus , in any given case , it is necessary so to combine the observations that the " quadrantal deviation ' ?
shall be eliminated .
Simple rules are given for this ; and the process of investigating the elements , with the assistance of the Tables , is illustrated by exhibiting the work from beginning to end , in anr actual instance .
When the elements are found , the Tabular Polar-Magnet-Deviations are to be formed from those elements ; and the excess of the Observed Deviations over these Tabular Deviations ought to consist simply of Quadrantal Deviation and Errors of Observations From the neutral point and the modulus , with the absolute measure of the terrestrial horizontal force , it is easy to form the absolute measures of the apparent permanent forces of the ship , in the directions of " headward " and " starboard " respectively .
The starboard force ( on the assumption of general symmetry ) can arise from nothing but subpermanent magnetism ; the headward force will consist of subpermanent rragnetism added algebraically to a multiple of the terrestrial vertical force , the multiplier being an unknown constant different for each different ship .
The process is then applied by the author to four wood-built sailing ships , two wood-built steamers , and five iron.-built steamers , whose compass-deviations have been observed at twenty-nine stations in all .
The results are as follows -1 .
In all cases , the principal part of the deviation follows the law of polar-magnet-deviation .
2 .
When the polar-magnet-deviation is computed accurately from the Table , and subtracted from the observed deviation , the residual .
quantity in all cases follows very closely the law of quadrantal deviation , leaving very little to be accounted for by errors of observation .
3 .
For each ship , the coefficient of quadrantal deviation is sensibly the same in all localities .
The small deviations from exact equality cannot be referred to geographical position , and evidently depend on accidental changes in the distribution of the iron , especially of that which is near to the compass .
4 .
As the test of theory must reside in the comparison of residual quantities , and as it appears that these residual quantities obey with great exactness the law which theory assigns , it follows that the theory , " that the deviation may in all cases be represented by a combination of two deviations , of which one is a polar-magnetdeviation , and the other is a quadrantal deviation whose angular coefficient , for the same ship , is constant under all circumstances , " is practically accurate .
5 .
Consequently in every case the deviation at any locality may be perfectly corrected ; by the application of a steel magnet to neutralize the polar-magnet-force ; and of a mass of soft iron on one side of the compass , and at the same level , to correct the quadrantal deviation ( as the author had previously explained ) .
6 .
The mass of soft iron will not require to be changed , under any circumstances .
It will depend on the variability or constancy of the subpermanent force to determine whether the steel magnet must be or must not be changed in different localities or after the lapse of time .
7 .
On forming the expressions for the absolute values of the headward and starboard polar-magnet-forces , it appears that in some ships the subpermanent magnetism is really ( to sense ) a permanent magnetism , but that in others there is a sensible change .
In one instance the change was such that , supposing the deviations to be accurately corrected by magnets and soft iron in England , there would have been at the Cape of Good Hope an error whose maxi mum was nearly 5- ?
; in all other cases the error would be smaller , and in some practically insensible .
8 .
The proper way of counteracting these changes evidently is , to readjust the magnets ; and for this purpose the magnets should be so mounted as to admit of adjustment at any time .
The readjustment can be effected in a very short time when a ship is in port , and can probably also be very easily effected at sea , in favourable weather , when a compass of reference can be carried high up one of the masts .
9 .
The author strongly condemns any system of navigating a ship by forming a table of compass-deviations from observations at one place , and using that table until observations have been obtained at some other place .
It does not in the smallest degree guard against che effect of change in the ship 's subpermanent magnetism ; and it introduces errors which are purely gratuitous and unnecessary , and which are entirely avoided if the compass is corrected by magnets and soft iron .
In elucidation of the amount of errors that may be introduced , if from any cause this system is carried to extremes , he remarks that in the instance of the 'Trident , ' sailing from the Thames to Rio Janeiro , the table of compass-deviations formed in the Thames would have been so erroneous when the ship arrived at Rio Janeiro , that on one course the error would have been 6 ?
or 7 ?
in one direction , and on another course it would have been 8 ?
or 9 ?
in the opposite direction : yet during this voyage the ship 's subpermanent magnetism had not changed at all ; and if the compasses had been corrected in the Thames by magnets and soft iron , there would not have been an error of a single degree in any part of the voyage .
In other cases , where there was a real change of subpermanent magnetism , the error would have been fully doubled by carrying on the original table of observed compass-deviations .
The communication is closed by the Table of Polar-MagnetDeviations .
It is a table of double entry , one of the arguments being the azimuth of the ship 's head from the neutral point , the other argument being the modulus or proportion of the polar-magnet-force to the terrestrial horizontal force .
The azimuth is expressed in points and decimals of a point , and is given for every OP ' 1 from OP'O to 16P'0 ; the second half of the circle being a repetition of the first , but with sign changed .
The modulus is given for every 0-01 from 0'00 to 0'80 .
The corresponding deviations are given in degrees and minutes .
For each modulus there is also given the mean of all the deviations in the semicircumference , for that modulus ; by use of which , in comparison with the mean in any given instance , the modulus in that instance is determined .

