" Comparison of Magnetic Disturbances recorded by the Self-registering Magnetometers at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , with Magnetic Disturbances deduced from the corresponding Terrestrial Galvanic Currents recorded by the Self-registering Galvanometers of the Royal Observatory .
" By GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , Astronomer Royal .
Received December 20 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after adverting to the origin of this branch of science , as commencing ( with himself ) in communications with Messrs. Edwin and Latimer Clark , but more particularly with Mr. Charles V. Walker , and alluding to the important labours of Mr. W. H. Barlow , Mr. Walker , and Dr. Lamont , proceeds to give the official history of the establishment of the wires and other apparatus necessary for its prosecution at the Royal Observatory .
In 1860 and 1861 , the author submitted to the Board of Visitors of the Royal Observatory proposals for extending wires from the Royal Observatory in two directions nearly at right angles , -on the second occasion , specifying Croydon and Dartford as terminal points .
The Board in 1861 recommended this to the Admiralty , who immediately gave their sanction .
The author then applied to the Directors of the SouthEastern Railway for permission to place his wires on their poles , which was granted , at a merely nominal rent .
All the wires and labour in mounting them were provided by the Railway Company at cost price , and the insulators were furnished by Messrs. Silver without profit .
The wires communicate with the earth at both ends of each by solder-attachment to water-pipes .
The author then describes the apparatus made by Mr. Simms for the record of the currents .
For each wire the current acts on a galvanometer whose needle-carrier also supports a small plane mirror ; and , by proper adjustment of cylindrical lenses , neat spots of light are formed upon a rotating ebonite cylinder , covered with photographic paper and made to revolve ( by clockwork ) in twenty-four hours .
With angular motion of the galvanometer , the spot of light moves .
The zero of measure is obtained by interrupting the wire-circuit .
The zero of time is obtained by interrupting the light and observing the corresponding clock-time .
Other adjustments have received great attention .
Many delays occurred in the establishment of the apparatus , and finally from the discovery that the earth-currents were very much stronger than had been anticipated .
From 1865 , April 18 , it has been continuously in use , in the same form as at present .
The author then gives the theory , algebraical and numerical , for inferring , from the magnitude of the galvanic currents observed in two known directions , the magnitude of the galvanic currents in the north and west directions .
And , proceeding from these by the known law , that when a current from the graphite or copper pole of a battery passes under a needle , it forces the austral element to the right ( as referred to the currentcourse ) , he infers the magnitude of the magnetic force in the north and west directions .
The numerical expression contains four unequal constant factors , by which the photographic ordinates must be multiplied .
The author explains that , for his own preliminary examination , he used four proportional compasses , constructed expressly for this purpose by Mr. Simms , and thus formed the ordinates of the new Miagnetic-Force Curves without any use of numbers whatever .
But for the more detailed work to be done by young assistants , he judged it better to measure the ordinates by scales with graduations of different value , and to add the results , thus forming numerical values of the magnetic ordinates .
The resulting scale being arbitrary , it was so adapted that the largest ordinates were not very different from the largest ordinates of the curves given by the Horizontal-Force Magnetometer .
The curves given by the Declination Magnetometer were adapted to the scale of the HorizontalForce Magnetometer .
In the large diagrams exhibited to the Society , the curves representing the North Force as shown by the Horizontal-Force Magnetometer , and the North Force as inferred from the Galvanometers , are brought into juxtaposition , and the curves representing the West Force as shown by the Declination Magnetometer , and as inferred from the Galvanometers , are brought into juxtaposition , for seventeen days in 1865 , 1866 , and 1867 .
And the general agreement between the curves of the two classes , especially for the North Force , is so remarkable that the author expresses his undoubting belief that the irregularities of magnetic force are caused by the galvanic currents .
At the same time he indicates some discordances which require further examination .
One of these is , that the disturbance inferred from the galvanic currents usually ( but not always ) precedes that recorded by the magnetometers .
Another is , that the North Force ap-pears , from the galvanic currents , to be increased ( whereas , in magnetic storms , it is usually found to be diminished ) .
There are other points of smaller importance .
The author suggests as possible that these discordances may arise from the circumstance that the Observatory is at the end of each of the wires ; and therefore the galvanic current which is recorded , being that which covers a space whose centre is several miles from the Observatory , may not correspond to the magnetic forces which are observed at the Observatory .
And he submits for consideration whether it may not be desirable to try two shorter wires , the two ends of each wire making connexion with the earth on opposite sides of the Observatory , and the register of each being made , at the Observatory , near the middle of its length .

