II .
" On the Strains in the Interior of Beams .
" By GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received November 6 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that he had long desired to possess a theory which should enable him to compute numerically the strains on every point in the interior of a beam or girder , but that no memoirs or treatises had given him the least assistance .
He had therefore constructed a theory , which solves completely the problems for which he wanted it , and which appears to admit of application at least to all ordinary cases .
The theory contemplates forces acting in one plane .
A beam , therefore , is considered as a lamina in a vertical plane , the same considerations applying to every vertical lamina of which a beam may be conceived to be composed .
The author remarks that it is unnecessary to recognize every possible strain in a beam .
Metallic masses are usually in a state of strain from circumstances occurring in their formation ; but such strains are not the subject of the present investigation , which is intended to ascertain only those strains which are created by the weight of the beam and its loads .
The algebraical interpretation of this remark is , that it is not necessary to retain general solutions of the equations which will result from the investigation , but only such solutions as will satisfy the equations .
After defining the unit of force as the weight of a square unit of the lamina , and the measure of compression-thrust or extension-pull as the length of the ribbon of lamina whose breadth is the length of the line which is subject to the transverse action of the compression or tension , and whose weight is equal to that compression or tension , the author considers the effect of tension , &amp;c. , estimated in a direction inclined to the real direction of the tension , and shows that it is proportional to the square of the cosine of inclination .
He then considers the effect of compounding any number of strains of compression or tension which may act simultaneously on the same part of a lamina , and shows that their compound effect may , in every case , be replaced by the compound effect of two forces at right angles to each other , the two forces being both compressions , or both tensions , or one compression and one tension .
Succeeding investigations are therefore limited to two such forces .
Proceeding then to the general theory of beams , it is remarked that if a curve be imagined , dividing a beam into any two parts , the further part of the beam ( as estimated from the origin of coordinates ) may be considered to be sustained by the forces which act in various directions across that curve , taken in combination with the weight of the further part of the beam , the load upon that part , the reaction of supports , &amp;c. Expressing the forces in conformity with the principles already explained , the three equations of equilibrium are formed , in which are involved several integrals depending on the form of the curve and on the forces .
As the same equations must apply to any adjacent curve , the author remarks that this is a proper case for application of the Calculus of Variations ; and on making that application , a remarkable relation is found to exist among the three functions depending on the forces acting at one point , from which it is immediately inferred that their algebraical expressions are the partial differential coefficients ( of the second order ) of a single function of the coordinates of the point of action .
On substituting the partial differential coefficients , the integrations can be immediately performed ; and the three equations assume a form of great simplicity , from which the sign of integration has entirely disappeared .
A form is then assumed for the principal function , with indeterminate coefficients , and it is shown that some of the constants may be eliminated by means of the three equations .
But in the actual applications it is necessary to determine some remaining constants by considerations peculiar to each case .
Now there is one modification of the strains whose value can be ascertained by ordinary mechanics , namely , the horizontal part of compressive force in the part of the beam above the neutral line , and the horizontal part of tension force in the part of the beam below the neutral line .
( These words apply to a beam supported at both ends ; in the case of a beam projecting from a wall , the words " compression " and " tension " must be reversed .
) By determining the corresponding expression on the theory of this memoir , and comparing the two , the remaining constants and the form of the function are completely determined .
From its partial differential coefficients are found the three functions depending on the forces acting at any one point ( as already menz tioned ) , and from these three functions are found the magnitudes of the two principal forces of compression or tension , and the angle which one of them makes with y , in a form admitting of numerical calculation .
The author then applies the theory to six cases , namely , ( 1 ) a beam projecting from a wall ; ( 2 ) a beam supported at its ends ; ( 3 ) a beam supported at its ends and carrying a load on its center ; ( 4 ) a beam supported at its ends and carrying an excentric load ; ( 5 ) a beam strained at both ends by the connexion of other beams , in the manner of the tubes of the Britannia Bridge ; ( 6 ) a beam strained at one end only .
Cases ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) require the use of discontinuous functions .
Tables are given , exhibiting the numerical magnitudes of the two principal forces and the angle made by one of them with y , for 121 points in case ( 1 ) , and for 231 points in each of the other cases .
By means of these numbers , diagrams are formed , exhibiting in each case the directions of the lines of compression-thrust and tension-pull in every part of the beam .

