" On the Structure and Development of the Blood.-First Series .
The development of the Blood-Corpuscle in Insects and other Invertebrata , and its comparison with that of Man and the Vertebrata .
" By George Newport , Esq. , F.R.C.S. , President of the Entomological Society , &amp;c. Communicated by P. M1 .
Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The author commences his paper by remarking , that he was led to the present inquiry by some curious facts relating to the blood of insects , which attracted his notice while engaged on the last paper he presented to the Royal Society , on the reproduction of lost parts in insects and myriapoda .
Some of these facts he is desirous of making known at once to the Society , preparatory to his offering them more extended researches on the blood of the invertebrata , and its comparison with that of the higher animals .
The chief purpose of the author in the present paper , is to show the analogy which exists between the different corpuscles in the blood of insects and of the vertebrata , to trace the changes which the former undergo as compared with those of the latter , and to show that in development and function they are analogous to secreting cells .
In pursuance of this object , he premises a brief notice of what little was already known respecting the corpuscle in the articulata , and of the different descriptions given of it by Carus , Spence , Wagner , Bowerbank , Edwards , Baly and some later observers , all of whom have described it differently , one only , Mr. Bowerbank , having correctly indicated its form .
He then proceeds to state , that while engaged on other observations in June last , he found that the oat-shaped corpuscles , which are so abundant in the caterpillar state of the insect , almost entirely disappear before the insect has arrived at the perfect , or butterfly state , in which , a few days after the insect is fully developed , scarcely a single oat-shaped corpuscle is to be found ; but in the place of these , there are numerous very minute rounded bodies , spherules , and also many flattened , obtusely oval or barrel-shaped , double concave discs .
Both these forms of corpuscle have molecular movements , which are most energetic in the spherules .
He next makes some general observations on the composition of the blood of the invertebrata , and calls in question the accuracy of Professor Wagner 's view in regarding the blood of these animals as analogous only to the chyle of the vertebrata , at the same time stating his belief that it is not only analogous to true blood , but that it undergoes a continued succession of changes through the agency of the corpuscles .
These minute bodies first derive nourishment and the means of growth and increase from the fluid portion of the blood ; and afterwards , when they have become fully developed , undergo dissolution , and help to supply the waste of the fluid that has been expended on the nourishment of the different structures , leaving other little bodies , which also undergo development , to assist in the further elaboration of this fluid .
He states also , that the development of these latter bodies appears to have a certain relation to the type of each particular class of animals ; and remarks that in the vertebrata the size of the corpuscle is perhaps in a ratio inverse to that of the activity and extent of the function of respiration .
The author states that he has been led to these views , which appear to him to apply to animals generally , by an examination of the corpuscles , and by watching the changes which take place in the blood in lepidopterous insects ; and he points out their accordance with those of Wagner , Henle , and Wharton Jones , with regard to the function of the corpuscles ; but proposes to give the details on which his own view respecting the size of the corpuscle is founded on a futture occasion .
IHe then enters more particularly on the consideration of the forms of corpuscle in the blood in the Articulata , which he marks as four ; although , he observes , they are in reality only so many stages of development of one ultimate structure .
These forms are , -first , the molecules , which he regards as comparable to the molecules observed in the chyle of Vertebrata by Mr. Gulliver ; secondly , the nucleated or oat-shaped corpuscle , which he believes with Wagner are analogous to the white , or chyle corpuscles of Vertebrata ; thirdly , the spherules , or minute rounded bodies developed from the oat-shaped corpuscle , and which he believes are analogous to the free nucleoli of Valentinl , and probably to the very minute white , opake granules constantly observed in the blood of vertebrata ; and lastly , the discs , which are further developments of the spherules , and analogous to the true red blood-discs of the higher animals , and which , as he states in a subsequent part of his paper , in his examination of the blood of the human foetus , he believes that he has also traced from the white , opake granules or spherules .
The author then proceeds to describe these forms of the corpuscle in insects more minutely , and enters into considerable detail with reference to the oat-shaped corpuscle , tracing it from its earliest distinct form , before any nucleus is perceptible in it ; and shows that the nucleoli which constitute this body are gradually increased in number , until the corpuscle has attained its full size , when it first changes its form and becomes shorter , then rounded , and afterwards entirely breaks up and liberates the nucleoli that have been developed within it .
This change of form he shows always takes place very rapidly in all the oat-shaped corpuscles , large and small , when out of the body , and to this circumstance he attributes the diversity in the descriptions that have been given by various observers of the form of the corpuscle .
He shows also , that , with reference to the function of this body , the corpuscles are usually found in greatest number during the act of breaking up , immediately before the larva is preparing to change its skin , at which time the blood is extremely coagulable ; and that there are fewest corpuscles , or that there is the greatest number of small corpuscles of this kind , soon after the caterpillar has again begun to feed .
When the insect has assumed the pupa state , nearly the whole of these corpuscles are broken up .
The greatest abundance of ' them is found in the act of changing on the third or fourth day of the pupa , after which the number of these corpuscles is gradually lessened , until , when the insect has entered the perfect state , very few remain .
When the change to the perfect insect occurs , there is another opportunity of watching the function of this corpuscle .
When the wings are being expanded and still soft , a few oat-shaped corpuscles circulate through them ; but as the wings become consolidated , these corpuscles appear to be arrested , and break down in the circulatory passages , supplying directly the material for the consolidation of these structures ; as appears from the entire arrest of circulation in these parts , and from the granular remains of the corpuscles which may be seen by transmitted light in a wing completely denuded of its scales on the upper and under surfaces .
The spherules and discs of the perfect lepidopterous insect are then noticed ; and some peculiar clavate or fiddle-shaped bodies , which appear to be the transition forms between spherules and discs , are pointed out as occurring in the blood of one of the night moths , Xylophasia polyodon , and also in the butterfly soon after it has left the pupa state .
These facts are regarded as proofs , derived from direct observation , of the function of the corpuscle , and of its analogy , both in function and development , to the secreting cells of glands .
In the second division of his paper , the author draws some comparisons between the blood-corpuscles of insects and the vertebrata , and gives the details of a series of observations on the blood of a human foetus that was born alive at the end of the sixth month .
He examined the blood of the parent , and of the placenta , and also of different parts of the body of the foetus a few hours after death , and found in general that the blood of the parent contained a very large quantity of white chyle corpuscles , and was extremely coagulable : the blood of the placenta contained , beside an abundance of chyle corpuscles , red blood-discs of extremely variable sizes , the largest being one-third or one-fourth larger than those of the mother , and the smallest scarcely more than one-fourth as large as the largest .
There were also an immense abundance of molecules and nucleoli , from which latter the red blood-discs appeared to be developed .
The blood of the vein and lungs presented a similar irregular condition as to size of the corpuscles , while that of the left auricle of ' the heart , aorta and arteries of the cord was more uniform in its character .
From these observations the author concludes , that the blood of the vertebrata is analogous in its mode of development to that of the insects and other invertebrata , and that the red blood-discs are the ultimate developments of the opake white granules or nucleoli of the blood .
Drawings illustrating the subjects accompany the paper .

