5 .
" On the Impregnation of the Ovum , in the Amphibia ( Second Series ) , and on the Nature of the Ilnpregnating Influence .
" By George Newport , Esq. , F.R.S , F.L.S. c. Received June 19,1851 .
The author commences his paper by stating that , having given direct proof , in his former paper , that the spermatozoon is the impregnating agent , and also that the liquor semiis does not effect impregnation , he now proposes to detail some new experiments which bear on the views he then advanced ; and especially with respect to the natupe of the impregnatin ' influence .
He first details some additional experiments with solution of carmine , with the object to show , that the result of one experiment mentioned in his former paper , in which he detected a small granule of carmine Within the vitellary membrane , was attributable to the cause he then assigned-accidental injury to the egg , ; and he states that the results of his present investigations confirm him in the view then held , --that no natural perforation or fissure exists in the en'velopes of the egg , either of the Frog or of the Newt , before , or at the time of impregnation ; and that the spermatozoon does not penetrate itoa but only lies in contact with the enveloDes .
He next gives the -rsnlts of some experiments with solution of potass , in confirmation of his former observations ; and further shows , the effect produced on the egg by immersion in solutions of potass and soda , with different proportionsof the salts ; and afterwards details the results of other experiments made to test some of the more remarkable ones by Spallanzani with regard ' to the effect of very minute quantities of the impregnating fluid .
In these trials the author has proceeded by the imode of direct application of the fluid , and not by immersion of the eggs in large quantities of water , with small proportions of seminal fluid , the mode followed by Spallanzani .
The result of the direct application through contact , once only with each egg , with the point of a pin wetted with the fluid , was , that this was sometimes sufficient to effect the commencement of segmentation , and consequent partial impregnation ; while if the fluid was allowed to drain off the pin , by continuing the contact for a few seconds , then complete segmentation , and full impregnation followed , and , other circumstances being favourable , an embryo was produced ; and when the head of a pin was employed to apply the fluid , then the usual result was full impregnation ; so that these results confirm those by Spallanzani .
The author further states that it appeared to be of no consequence as to which surface of the egg was touched , the dark surface , light surface , or the side , the result was the same .
He next proceeds to show , that when the egg is immersed in pure seminal fluid a directly opposite result ensues .
Segmentation then seldom occurs , and the embryo is but rarely produced ; and further , that the effect then produced on the egg is very similar in appearantee to that of the chemical action of solution of caustic potass ; the yelk becomes shrivelled and decays .
These results he thinks are not explained by the views at present entertained respecting the nature of impregnation .
The author then refers to the observations made by himself , and also by M. Quatrefages , which tend to show that no impregnation is effected , even by the contact of the spermatozoon with the egg , when all motion in the spermatozoon has entirely ceased ; and he conceives that this fact , when considered with the results now obtained , leads to a new view of the subject .
Reference Is then made to the views of Faraday , Mr. Grove , Matteucci , and others , respecting the correlations of the physical forces and the a:uthor mentions that the relations of the vital to the physical forces were referred to by himself in 1845 , and also in the same year by M. Mayer , and that his object now isa to apply these views to the investigation of the function of impregnation .
He thinks that impregnation is commenced , if not entirely completed , by what may possibly prove to be a new condition of force , in , and peculiar to , the iimpregnating agent , the spermatozoon , which he designates sperm-force , and distinguishes from the force of growth and development in cells , through which the spermatozoon is produced .
He further distinguishes it from the force of muscular contractility , and 84 , from that of the nervous system , and states that he regards the whole only as modifications of one common force , and as having correlations with the physical forces .
In support of this view the author enters into details , and refers to some late analyses by Dr. Frerichs , to show that the spermatozoa , like muscle and nerve , not only have a definite structure , but also a definite chemical composition , and that this composition appears to be the same in different classes of animals .
He thinks that the spermatozoa may thence be regarded as organs of a special modification of force , and that motion is the visible exponent of this form of force , since the spermatozoa are quite inefficient to impregnate when their motion has entirely ceased .
The author further thinks that it is only by the adoption of views of this kind that the apparently contradictory results obtained are likely to be explained .
In the course of his observations the author states a remarkable fact , which he has repeatedly verified , and which he thinks is of importance , Ilamely , that the first cleavage or division of the yelk , in the egg of the Frog and Toad , corresponds in its line of direction to the longitudinal axis of the body of the embryo of those animals ; and this he proposes to show more particularly hereafter .

