4 .
" On the Reproduction of lost parts in Myriapoda and Insecta .
" By George Newport , Esq. , F.R.C.S. , President of the Entomological Society of London , and Corresponding Member of the Philomathic Society of Paris .
Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. It has long been known that the limbs of Crustacea and Arachnida , accidentally lost or designedly removed , are , in course of time , replaced by the growth of new limbs ; and the same power of reproduction has been stated to have been observed in the Phasmee , insects which undergo neither metamorphosis nor any change of habits .
But whether such a power exists in those insects , such as the Lepidoptera , which undergo a complete metamorphosis , changing not only their form , but also their food and mode of life , in passing from the larva to the adult state , has been considered as very doubtful .
The instances in which the reproduction of lost parts appeared to have occurred in some of the Myriapoda , were attributed to imperfect or arrested development .
With a view to determine these unsettled points , the author commenced , in the summer of 1841 and 1842 , a series of direct experiments on this subject in the Myriapoda ; and in the present summer he has extended them to the Lepidoptera .
The results of his labours are given in the present memoir .
In some specimens of Iulus , from which he had removed the antennae and some of the legs , the lost organs were found to be completely reproduced after the next change of integument ; differing from the original organs only in their smaller size , and the incoimplete development of some of their minuter parts .
The same results followed from similar experiments made on the Lithobris during the earlier periods of its growth .
One individual of this genus , which had already acquired the tenth pair of legs , was by accident deprived of the eighth , ninth and tenth pair ; at the next change of skin it not only developed two additional pair of legs , but also reproduced the three pair which had been lost .
Some time after this it again lost one of the legs of the twelfth pair ; a loss which was repaired at the next change by the growth of a new leg , while those previously reproduced acquired an increase of size .
The first observation which led the author to believe that true insects might possess the power of reproducing lost parts , was that of a specimen of Phasma in the collection at the British Museum , in which the right anterior leg had evidently been reproduced .
He then instituted a series of experiments on the larva of the Vanessa urtice , or common nettle butterfly , which belongs to the order Lepidoptera , and undergoes complete metamorphosis .
He removed some of the true legs of the larva , sometimes in their tibial portion , and sometimes at their base : in the first case , parts similar to those removed were invariably reproduced in different states of development , and in the latter , entire new limbs were formed ; in some instances , at the second change of the larva , when it passed into the pupa state ; but in two or three instances no reproduction took place .
At first view , this difference in the results might appear to favour the opinion that this reproduction of limbs depends on the existence of parts especially adapted to perform this function , and which , in those experiments that had failed to exhibit the phenomenon , had been themselves removed .
But the author found that in every instance of the mutilations thus practised , the perfect insect possessed a coxa , or basilar part of the limb ; and this was the case even in those in which a new organ was not reproduced .
From this fact , taken in conjunction with the formation of new entire limbs in the Iulidae after the removal of every portion of the previous ones , the author infers that the power of reproduction resides in the whole of the organized tissues .
The author found that each newly produced limb is , in every case , composed of all its essential parts , namely coxa , femur , tibia , tarsus and claw ; but its development is scarcely ever entirely normal , being either deficient in some of the tarsal joints , or irregular in the development of its armature .
The following are the general conclusions which the author deduces from his investigations .
Slight wounds in the larvme of insects always heal , except when the viscera have protruded , or excessive hemorrhage has occurred : severe wounds , such as those attending the excision of a limb , also frequently heal .
It is when the wound is in the line of action of the principal muscles of the body that protrusion of the viscera takes place .
For the healing of wounds , the first requisite is the arrest of the hemorrhage ; and this is effected , as in the higher animals , by the coagulation of the blood , and the formation of a clot ; and then a complete union of the separated parts takes place beneath the eschar formed by the clot .
After this union , the reparation of the injury is commenced by a development , from the injured surface , of parts corresponding to those that had been removed .
For the production of a new limb , one change of skin , at least , is necessary .
The healing of the wound after the removal of a part , and the subsequent reproduction , although they do not prevent , yet certainly retard the natural changes .
Lastly , the author has established the fact , that reproduction of lost parts takes place in metabolic as well as in the ametabolic articulata .
The paper is accompanied with drawings of reproduced parts .

