An Account of Trigonometrical Operations in the Years 1821 , 1822 , and 1823 , for determining the Difference of Longitude between the Royal Observatories of Paris and Greenwich .
By Captain Henry Kater , V.P.R.S. Read January 31 , and February 7 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 153 .
] The first section of this paper contains a narrative of the proceedings of the Commission appointed for executing the object announced in the title .
The first trigonometrical operations for connecting the meridians of Paris and Greenwich were carried on by General Roy , in cooperation with Messrs. de Cassini , Mechain , and Legendre , in the year 1790 , an account of which was published in the Philosophical Transactions of that year .
In 1821 , the Royal Academy of Sciences , and Board of Longitude at Paris , communicated to the Royal Society of London their desire that these operations should be repeated , and the following Commissioners were nominated by these scientific bodies for that purpose ; namely , Messrs. Arago and Mathieu , on the part of the Academy of Sciences ; and Lieutenant-Colonel Colby and Captain Kater , on the part of the Royal Society .
The instrument employed in these operations was the great theodolite of Ramsden , belonging to the Royal Society , and the same which had formerly been used by General Roy .
It was at first proposed to adopt as a base , some one of the distances given by the trigonometrical survey of Great Britain , and to connect it with General Roy 's stations ; but it was found that the guns and wooden pipes , which had marked these stations , had been either removed or lost , so that the exact stations could not be immediately ascertained .
The signals used for connecting the stations upon the coasts of England and France were lamps with compound lenses , constrtucted under the direction of M. Fresnel .
These lenses were 3 feet in diameter , and were composed of numerous pieces ; the light they gave far exceeded that of any of our lighthouses , appearing at the distance of 48 miles , like a star of the first magnitude .
Staffs were also erected near the lamps , but these were only occasionally visible .
These lamps were placed under the care of proper attendants on stations selected upon Fairlight Down and near Folkstone Turnpike , and the observers then crossed the Channel on the 24th of September 1821 , and stationed themselves at Blancnez .
Their observations were for some time retarded by tempestuous weather , but were completed on the 7th of October .
They then removed to Montlambert , a fort situated on a height near Boulogne , where a further delay occurred in consequence of an accident that had happened to the lamp at Fairlight .
On the 14th they returned through Calais to Fairlight .
Here they at length succeeded in discovering the wooden pipe by which General Roy had marked his station , and which had been buried 4 feet deep in the earth .
In order to preserve this point , a millstone , having the words " t Roy 's Station " cut upon it , was placed level with the surface of the ground , its centre being precisely over the centre of the pipe .
The party next proceeded to Folkstone ; and in order to carry on the series towards London , stations were selected on Stead Hill and Wrotham Hill , which were connected with Folkstone by an intermediate point on Tolsford Hill , from which the stations on the French coast are visible , and the triangles connected with the church of Notre Dame at Calais .
It was found impossible to connect the triangles directly with the base measured by General Roy upon Hounslow-heath , on account of many intervening buildings since erected , which now intercept the view of one end of the base from the other end .
The summer of 1822 was employed in the choice of stations , one of which was the temporary meridian mark erected near Chingford for the Royal Observatory , and which was fixed upon in order that the side of one of the triangles might coincide with the meridian of Greenwich .
Observations were next made from Leith Hill , Wrotham Hill , Stead Hill , Crowborough , and Severn-droog Castle , on Shooter 's Hill , which were connected with Greenwich by the northwest pinnacle of Westminster Abbey and the cross of St. Paul 's , and afterwards by means of Hanger Hill , with Fairlight Down and Folkstone turnpike .
A difficulty occurred in observing from the station on Shooter 's Hill the signal staff erected upon Hanger Hill , in consequence of the intervening smoke of London .
This was obviated by a contrivance of Colonel Colby , consisting of several tin plates nailed to the staff , and disposed one above another at such angles as to reflect in succession the sun 's rays in the direction of Shooter 's Hill , and thus to answer the purpose of a heliostat .
Each plate gave in its turn a neat image of the sun , resembling a fixed star , which was seen through a smoke so thick as to render the hill itself invisible .
In July of the next year , 1823 , the theodolite belonging to the Ordnance was placed at the station at Chingford , and the series of observations , which had been left imperfect the preceding autumn , were completed .
Pains were taken by sinking stones of proper size , with the word " station " marked upon them , and also by observing the angles formed by steeples and other permanent objects in the vicinity , to preserve the identity of the stations , for the use of future observers .
In the second section , an account is given of the methods of computation that were adopted .
The methods which have been employed for geodetical calculations , may be reduced to three ; the first consists in considering the observed triangles as spherical triangles , of which the sides are to be computed by spherical trigonometry ; the second is to deduce from the spherical angles , the angles formed by the chords , and thus reduce the spherical triangle to a plane triangle ; the third consists in deducting from each of the observed spherical angles , one third of the spherical excess , which reduces the triangle to a plane triangle , in which the computations may be made by plane trigonometry .
This last method , devised by Le Gendre , and which is recommended by its elegance and simplicity , was the one employed on the present occasion .
The third section comprises the details of the observations of the several triangles , and the computations made from them of the actual distances of the several stations .
As the standard of linear measure employed by General Roy for the measurement of the base upon Hounslow Heath differs by a small fraction from the Imperial standard yard , it was found necessary to add 5-82 feet as a correction to that distance .
Corresponding corrections to all General Roy 's measurements may be obtained by using the constant multiplier of *0000691 .
The fourth section is occupied with computations of the distances from the meridian , and from the perpendicular to the meridian of Greenwich .
The fifth section contains the investigations of the latitudes and longitudes of the several stations .
In these computations the ellipticity of the earth has been assumed at one 300dth , as being nearly the mean between 3- , - , and -- , the limits between which the ellipticity is generally supposed to be comprised .
The sixth section contains remarks on the observations of the pole star for determining the direction of the meridian , showing the small degree of reliance to which , with reference to that object , such observations are entitled , and also on the determination of the length of the degree upon a circle perpendicular to the meridian , which is liable to similar causes of error .
The seventh section is on the measurement of the heights of the stations above the level of the sea ; and the influence of terrestrial refraction on the accuracy of these measurements .
As the results of M. Arago 's observations in France have not yet been published , the longitude of Calais must be taken , as given in the Connaissance des Tems , to be 0 ? ?
28 ' 59 " west of Paris ; which added to '1 ? ?
51 ' 18"'73 , its east longitude from Greenwich , resulting from the preceding work , gives 20 30 ' 17 " 73 for the difference of longitude between Paris and Greenwich ; which is equivalent to 9m 21s 18 in time , differing only OS28 in defect from the results obtained with fire signals as reported in the Phil. Trans. for 1826 , by Mr. Herschel .
As the accuracy of the preceding work wholly depends upon the degree of reliance that may be placed upon the base at Hounslow Heath , which is somewhat questionable , the author recommends that a new base be measured to connect in the most unexceptionable manner the stations of Leith Hill and Wrotham ; to the successful accomplishment of which , the arrangements so happily devised by Colonel Colby for compensating expansion would eminently contribute .
An Appendix is subjoined , containing miscellaneous observations with respect to various objects connected with the proceedings , accompanied with tables relating to the computations .
The methods employed for securing the permanence of the positions of the microscopes of the theodolites are pointed out , and the influence of various minute causes of inaccuracy is inquired into , especially that of lateral refraction , which frequently occasioned a sensible variation in the same angles observed in different states of the weather .
The original observations relating to the work are deposited with the Royal Society , for the purpose of being consulted whenever occasion may require .
All the angles employed in the work , with the name of the observer , and the manner in which they were derived , are given at the end of the present paper .
Tables are also given detailing the observations of the pole star .

