XXV .
On the Light of the Cassegrainian Telescope , compared with that of the Gregorian .
By Captain Henry Kater , BrigadeMajor .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read May 27 , 18ig .
r zH Cassegrainian telescope from its first invention to the present time , has generally been considered to be merely the Gregorian disguised , and to possess no other advantages over it than the capability of being made shorter with the same magnifying power .
This opinion , joined to the inconvenience of its inverting the object , has caused it to be thrown aside , perhaps too hastily , and without a sufficient examination of its properties .
As the experiments which I am about to detail may possibly lead to important conclusions , I shall perhaps be pardoned if I relate the circumstances which induced me to engage in them .
A self-taught artist of the name of CRICKMORE , who resides at Ipswich , had by exclusive attention to the subject , brought the Gregorian telescope to a degree of perfection surpassing any thing of the kind I have ever yet met with .
Some months since , in the course of his experiments , he first completed a Cassegrainian telescope of one foot in length , and on viewing Jupiter with it , with a power of about loo , I was instantly struck with the brightness of the image , far exceeding what might have been expected from the aperture ; but I supposed this to have been a deception arising from the specula being more exquisitely figured than usual , which , producing greater distinctness , occasioned the idea of superior light .
A short time after this , the same artist received an order for another telescope , which , from the success that had attended his recent efforts , he recommended to be of the Cassegrainian form .
The aperture was five inches , the length thirty inches , and with a power of near 400 the image was so perfectly distinct and luminous , that I could no longer hesitate to conclude that , from some unknown cause , the Cassegrainian telescope actually possessed far more light than the Gregorian , and I waited most anxiously for an opportunity of verifying this , and determining the difference by experiment .
Such an opportunity soon presented itself , and under circumstances peculiarly favourable , as another excellent telescope of the Cassegrainian form was made , and I was fortunate enough to procure a Gregorian made by Mr. CRICKMORE some time before .
The mirrors of both these telescopes were cast at the same time , and from the same pattern , so that no difference of light could arise from any difference in the composition of the metal .
The magnifying power of both instruments was ascertained by experiment to be very nearly equal ; but the excess was rather on the side of the Cassegrainian .
The telescopes being placed side by side , were directed to a printed card , at the distance of fifty yards ; and on viewing it , the far superior brightness of the image in the Cassegrainian was strikingly apparent .
Having prepared a circular piece of paste-board to close the end of the Cassegrainian telescope , I drew a number of concentric circles on it , at the distance of the twentieth of an inch from each other .
The paste-board was then placed in the end of the tube , and an aperture was made , which was enlarged by cutting out one circle after another till the card appeared equally bright through both telescopes , and of this , the eye judges most accurately .
The following measures were then taken .
Cassegrainian Telescope .
Diameter of the circular opening in the pasteInch .
board , 70 Diameter of the back of the small mirror -1 , 09 Length of the arm 0,805 Thickness 0,00 Gregorian Telescope .
Diameter of the large m irror Diameter of the back of the small mirror Length of the arm Thickness From the above measures the following calculations were made .
Cassegrainian Telescope .
Inch .
Area of the circular opening in the paste-board 5,726 Area of the back of the small mirror to be deducted ( ,933 Area of the arm to be deducted 0,161 ---1,094 Area of the portion of the mirror exposed to the light a Gregorian Telescope .
Area of the large mirror Inch .
11,946 Area of the back of the small mirror to be deducted 0,785 Area of the arm to be de .
ducted 0 , s90 --_ 1,075 Area of the portion of the mirror exposed to the light 10,871 Inch .
3 , 90 1 , 00 1 , 45 0 , 20 2c8 4,63 !
2 -U From this experiment it appears , that the light in both telescopes was equal when the area of the aperture of the Cassegrainian , was to that of the Gregorian , as 4,632 to 10,871 .
Now the increase of light being ( under similar circumstances ) directly as the area of the aperture , it follows that if the aperture of the Cassegrainian be made equal to that of the Gregorian , the light in favour of the former will be as 10,871 to 4,6gs , or in the surprising proportion of 7 to 3 nearly .
A difference of such magnitude could not be admitted but with extreme caution , particularly as the Gregorian telescope had been made some time , and its mirrors might therefore be supposed not to possess so high a polish , as those of the Cassegrainian which had been recently finished ; but I was soon enabled to pursue the subject , as a Gregorian telescope was Inade by Mr. CRICKMORE fully equal , if not superior , to any he had before constructed ; the mirrors were of an exquisite polish .
The Cassegrainian , used in this experiment , was the one I formerly mentioned , the aperture of which was five inches , and the length thirty inches .
It had not been carefully preserved , and the large mirror had lost somewhat of its original polish .
All circumstances being thus in favour of the Gregorian , a paste-board circle was prepared , and the experiment conducted as before .
When the images of the card were equally bright , the following measures were taken .
209 Cassegrainian Telescope .
Gregorian Telescope , Diameter of the circular Diameter of the large mirIncl .
opening in the pasteInch .
ror 3 , 95 board 3 , 50 ' Diameter of the back of Diameter of the back of the small mirror 1,375 the small mirror 0 , 95 Length of the arm 1,063 Length of the arm -1 , 50 Thickness of the arm 0 , 20 Thickness of the arm 0,175 Length of a bar containing the adjustment 0 , 70 Its width 0 , 15 Diameter of three semicircles used as rests for the great mirror 0,375 From the above measures the following calculations were made .
Cassegrainian Telescope .
Area of the circular openInch .
ing in the paste-board 9,621 Area of the back of the small mirror to be deducted 1,485 Area of the arn to be deducted 0,213 ----1,698 Area of the portion of the mirror exposed to the light 7,923 Gregorian Telescope .
Area of the large mirror Area of the back of the small mirror to be deducted 0,709 Inch .
12,254 Area of the arm to be deducted 0,263 Area of the bar containing the adjustment to be deducted 0 , 105 Area of the three semicircles to be deducted o,166 ----1,243 Area of the portion of the mirror exposed to the light 11,011 21 !
0 _t_ _su The magnifying power having been determined ( by experiment ) to be 188 in the Cassegrainian , and 182 in the Gregorian , the expression for the relative quantity of light becomes 11,011 7,923 -i to -3t or as 332 to 224 , being nearly as 3 to 2 .
In the first experiment , the advantages of polish were , perhaps , on the side of the Cassegrainian telescope ; in the last , they were much in favour of the Gregorian ; a mean therefore of both results may probably .
be considered as approaching the truth , and the light of a telescope of the Cassegrainian construction , may be taken , to that of a Gregorian of the same aperture and power , as about 60 to 33 .
A fact so new , naturally leads the mind to hazard a conjecture as to the cause .
In the Gregorian telescope a column of light from a point of the object , is received on the large mirror , and reflected in a cone of rays , the vertex of which is its focus , where an image is formed .
Here all these rays meet in a single poiznt , and crossing each other , fall on the small concave mirror whence they are again reflected , and form another image near the eye .
Now , if light be supposed to consist of particles of matter , is it not possible that these particles , crossing in the same point , may interfere with each other ?
or , when thus forced within a certain distance of each other , may not a power of repulsion exist , which would occasion many of them to be dissipated ?
In the Cassegrainian telescope the rays reflected from the great mirror are received by the small convex mirror before they arrive at tleir focus , and are consequently reflected back without having crossed as in the Gregorian .
The conclusion then seems to be , that wherever an image is formed , much light is iost , and this con elusion perhaps derives additional force from a circumstance noticed in most elementary works on optics , viz. that the satellites of Jupiter and his belts , may be distinctly seen with a Galilean telescope , whilst with an astronomical telescope of an equal aperture and power , they remain invisible .
Ipswich , 2zd April , 1813

