X. The Bakerian Lecture .
On the best kind of steel and form for a compass needle .
By Capt. HENRY KATER , F. R. S. Read February i , 182l .
ON the return of the first expedition which sailed for the discovery of a north-west passage , it appeared that from the near approach to the magnetic pole , and the consequent diminution of the directive force , the compasses on board had become nearly useless .
Some of the azimuth compasses employed on that occasion were of my own invention ; I was therefore anxious that the next expedition , which was about to sail under the command of Lieutenant PARRY , and which has happily returned with so much honour to those engaged in it , should be furnished with instruments of this description , combining as much power and sensibility as possible .
It was with this intention alone that I commenced the experiments which form the subject of the present paper ; but which I should not have deemed sufficiently important to be made public , had I not lately , on resuming the enquiry , been led to some results which appeared of sufficient interest , as well as practical utility , to induce me to lay them before the Royal Society .
My immediate object was to ascertain the kind of steel , and form of needle best calculated to receive the greatest directive energy with the least weight .
Two needles were prepared of that kind of steel which is called blister steel , and two of spur steel , the weight of each being 66 grains .
They were of the form of a long ellipse , in length 5 inches , and in width half an inch .
One of each kind was pierced , as in the figure below , the weight being made up by additional thickness .
This needle , therefore , had much less extent of surface than the solid ellipse .
Recollecting to have had in my possession , many years since , a compass of extraordinary power , the needle of which was composed of pieces of steel wire put together in the shape of a rhombus , I caused two needles to be made of this form of a piece of clock-spring , which I understand is of that kind of steel which is called shear steel .
They were shaped as below ; in one the cross piece was of brass , and in the other formed of part of the clock spring .
These needles were , by mistake , made to weigh only 45 grains .
In ascertaining the directive force , the balance of torsion of M. COULOMB was employed .
This instrument , as is well known , consists of a fine wire attached to an index moveable round a circle , divided into degrees .
To the other end of the wire is fixed a cradle , to receive the needle which is the sub .
ject of experiment .
The needle being in the magnetic meridian when the wire has no torsion , is afterwards forced to deviate from it to a mark distant about 60 ?
, by turning the index , and consequently twisting the wire .
The number of degrees passed over by the index will be as the directive force of the needle .
The needles which I have described were first made soft , and then hardened merely at their ends ; they were not polished , and were magnetized to saturation .
Experiment i. Needles soft , and then hardened at the Weight of Directive ends needle .
force .
l Blister steel , solid ellipse 66 500 _-----_ , open ellipse 66 520 Spur steel , solid ellipse 66 540 -open ellipse 66 50 'i Shear steel , rhombus 45 435 , rhombus , with 45 435 cross piece of brass r~~~ By the experiments on magnetism made by M. COULOMB , it appears , that the directive forces of needles of similar form are to each other as their masses ; the directive force , therefore , of a needle of the form of a pierced rhombus of 66 grains , would be expressed , according to the preceding experiments , by 638 .
From many other experiments , which I regret were not registered at the time , it appeared that shear steel was capable of receiving the greater magnetic force , and that the iopierced rhombus was the best form for a compass needle .
I may add , that needles of cast steelwere tried , but were found so very inferior as to be at once rejected .
My next object was to determine the effect of polish , and of various modes of hardening and tempering the needles .
In addition to the former needles , two were made of clock-spring of the pierced rhombus form , 5 iMiches long , 2 inches wide , and weighing 66 grains .
One of these was first softened , then hardened at the ends , and.left unpolished ; the other , as well as the solid elliptical needle of spur steel , was hardened throughout , and polished .
The needles were then magnetized to saturation .
Experiment 2 .
Directive force .
Unpolished rhombus , hard at the ends 800 Polished rhombus , hard throughout 367 Polished elliptical needle , hard.throughout _ 380 Polished elliptical needle , softened in the middle by laying it on a red hot poker f Polished rhombus , softened in the middle d in the same manner 5 59 ?
&amp; sltD46}~~~~~r .
*zr._-_ _as-ra _ v. .
_ t..V The needles were now laid aside till thefollowing day , when the directive force was again examined .
Unpolished rhombus , hard at the ends 805 Polished elliptical needle , softened in the 6 middle } Polished rhombus , softened in the middle 580 , W. .
5 , \ .
, .
, ,~~-y-- ?
I_~ i. , th IIt 1 !
1i loThe polished rhombus was now softened throughout , and the extremities being hardened at a red heat , the directive force was found to be 800 .
It is scarcely necessary to say , that the needles were re-magnetized to saturation previous to each experiment .
From these experiments I drew the following conclusions .
That of the steel I employed , shear steel is the best kind for compass needles .
That the best form for a compass needle is that of a pierced rhombus .
That polish has no influence on the directive force .
That hardening the needle throughout , considerably diminishes its capacity for magnetism .
That a needle soft in the middle , and its extremities hardened at a red heat , appears to be susceptible of the greatest directive force .
That the directive force does not depend on the extent of surface , but on the mass .
I might also have inferred , that the needle was capable of a greater directive force when wholly softened and hardened at the extremities , than when entirely hardened and softened in the middle ; but it will appear by subsequent experiments , to be detailed , that the difference is probably to be attributed to a difference in the degree of heat to which the needle is exposed in softening it in the middle .
My next experiments were made with three needles , two of which were rectangular parallelograms of equal length and weight , but the one only half the width of the other .
The third needle was a pierced rhombus ; the whole were made of clock spring .
These needles were made perfectly hard , and magnetized , as was always the case , to saturation .
Experiment 8 .
Directive Needles perfectly hard .
force .
Wide parallelogram 490 Narrow parallelogram 490 Pierced rhombus 53 i An accident happened to these needles , which rendered them unfit for farther experiment .
It however appears from that above stated , that the directive force is nearly as the mass , and not as the surface ; and that the pierced rhombus is superior to the parallelogram .
M. COULOMB having found that a needle of the rhombus form not pierced , and which he calls " un lame taillee en fldche " , was susceptible of a greater directive force than a parallelogram , I was desirous of repeating this experiment , as well as of comparing this form with the pierced rhombus .
For this purpose four needles were made four inches and a half long , each weighing 63 grains ; one was a parallelogram , o,44 inch wide ; another a rhombus , which I shall call the large rhombus , o,8 wide ; the third a pierced rhombus , ,4 wide in the middle , having its sides o,2 wide : these were made of clock-spring .
The fourth needle a rhombus , which may be called the small rhombus , o,4 wide , was made of that kind of steel which is used for saw blades , and which I believe is shear steel .
This last needle was much thicker than the others .
109 The steel of which these needles were made had been exposed to a sufficient degree of heat to render it soft enough to be worked , and in this state the needles were magnetizedo Experiment 4. .
Directive Steel soft as worked .
force .
Parallelogram 720 t Small rhombus 53 Large rhombus 765 Pierced rhombus 813 Experiment 5 .
The ends of the needles hardened at an Directive obscure red heat .
force .
Parallelogram 715 Small rhombus -577 i Large rhombus i 79 i Pierced rhombus 84 Experiment 6 .
Directive The ends hardened at a red heat .
force .
Parallelogram 742 Small rhombus 58 Large rhombus 745 Pierced rhombus 844 _w _RK_ V.v Experiment 7 .
Hardened with a bright red heat , and then softened by a red heat from the middle towards Directive i the ends , the extremities for about an inch .
force , remaining hard .
Parallelogram 6x 1 Small rhombus 710 Large rhombus 66 Pierced rhombus 685 Experiment 8 .
Softened at a red heat between two plates of steel , the whole being allowed to cool graduDirective ally , and then the extremities of the needles : force .
hardened at a red-hcat .
Parallelogram 5 0o 0 Small rhombus 585 Large rhombus 54 Pierced rhombus 590 --_ __ -i-- ... ... ... . .
I11 As it appeared from the above experiments that the needles had suffered a gradual deterioration , I imagined that this might have occurred in consequence of their having been exposed to the heat of a coal fire , by which some portion of the carbon of the steel might have been destroyed ; I therefore re-carbonized the needles , by surrounding them with shreds of leather , and exposing them for several hours in a close vessel to a considerable heat .
After they had gradually cooled , the ends were hardened at a red heat .
Experiment 9 .
Needles soft , and then the ends hardened Directive at a red heat .
force .
Small rhombus 477 Large rhombus 415 Pierced rhombus 450 Here we may remark , that though the needles were apparently in the same state , except being re-carbonized , as in the last experiment , they had suffered considerable deterioration .
The needles were now covered with a mixture well known to workmen to prevent decarbonization : this had been before neglected , but was used in all the subsequent experiments .
They were hardened at a bright red heat , and afterwards tempered throughout rather beyond a blue colour .
The large rhombus and the parallelogram were accidentally broken .
Experiment lo Hardened at a bright red , and then terDirective pered beyond a blue .
force .
Small rhombus 660 Pierced rhombus t77 From these last experiments I believe little can be gathered , except that the needles became less susceptible of directive force from repeated exposure to heat , and that this effect was not occasioned by a decarbonization of the steel .
The small rhombus of saw blade , perhaps , from being the thickest , suffered less than those made of clock-spring .
112 The springs of clocks are made by passing the steel between rollers ; and it thus undergoes great compression .
May not this state be favourable to magnetism ; and the repeated expansion of the steel by heat , destroying this state , have occasioned the deterioration I have remarked ?
The needle which was made of saw blade having suffered less than the others in the preceding experiments , I procured three other needles of this material ; they were cut out of the same plate ; the weightof each was 120 grains , and their lengtl four inches and a half .
One was a parallelogram , 0,46 inch wide ; another a rhombus , as before , 0,87 inch wide ; and the third a pierced rhombus , having the middle 1,5 inch , and its sides 0,25 wide .
These needles were made without its being found necessary to soften the steel plate ; they consequently were all as nearly as possible of the same degree of temper .
In this state they were magnetized .
Experiment 11 .
Directive Steel the same as worked .
force .
Parallelogram 1143 ; Rhombus 1020 Pierced rhombus 1085 Wishing to try whether the needles were magnetized to saturation , I carefully re-magnetized them .
Experiment 1Q .
Directive Needles re-magnetized , force .
Parallelogram 140 Rhombus 955 Pierced rhombus 1o69 I now to my surprise found that the directive force , instead of increasing , had lessened in each of the needles , and I became anxious to discover the cause of so unexpected a phenomenon .
It has been observed by M. COULOMB , and more filly entered into by BlOT , that if a needle be magnetized to saturation by strong magnets , and afterwards weaker magnets be applied , the needle will lose some part of the force it had before acquired .
Now , if in using the same set of magnets a certain degree of force be communicated to a needle , and the magnets be afterwards arranged in a manner less favourable for imparting magnetic force , it should seem , that this second operation would produce the same effect as would follow the use of magnets of less force , and that the magnetism of the needle would suffer a diminution .
The method I had employed in magnetizing the needles , was that of Du HAMEL , by joining the opposite poles of the magnets , and placing them on the centre of the needle , so inclined that each formed an angle , as I afterwards ascertained , of about go degrees with the horizon .
The magnets were then slid from the centre to the extremities of the needle , and their poles being again joined at a distance from the needle , the operation was repeated .
As I could in no way account for the diminution of directive 114 force which I have remarked , except by supposing that I had inadvertently changed the inclination at which the magnets were held , I resolved to try whether a variation of this angle produced any considerable difference in the degree of magnetism communicated .
For this purpose I re-magnetized the needles , by laying the magnets , with their opposite poles joined , flat upon the needle , the junction of the magnets being upon the centre .
They were then separated and drawn to the extremities of the needle , the surface of the needle and that of the magnets being in contact the whole time .
The poles were then joined and the operation repeated , using but little pressure .
Experiment 13 .
Magnets moved flat upon the needle I)irective with little pressure .
force .
Parallelogram 1265 Rhombus 048 Pierced rhombus -o 30 This manner of magnetizing , therefore , appears much superior to that before employed .
The needles were again magnetized in the same manner as in the last experiment , except that the ends of the magnets were pressed pretty strongly against the needle .
LI5 Experiment 14 .
, ,.- , , , ,s , ~ , ~ , wr-_ .
, ,1 5 ... _ l_.~ : ... .A i Magnets moved as before , but with Directive I strong pressure .
force ' .
Parallelogram 63 Rhombus 10 Pierced rhombus , 131 No advantage appears to have resulted from the increased pressure , but the arrow-shaped needle has suffered a diminution of power The magnets were now slid from the middle to the extremities of the needle at an inclination of only two or three degrees , and the following were the results .
Experiment 15 .
sMagnets inclined in an angle of two or Directive three degrees. .
force .
Parallelogram .
'1275 Rhombus 1051 Pierced rhombus 1150 This method appears to be preferable to any I have yet tried , and was therefore employed in the subsequent experiments of the present series .
The rhombus of 63 grains , which in Experiment io was left with a directive force of 577 , on being magnetized in this manner had its power increased to 6oo .
The ends of the needles were now hardened at a red heat , the middle remaining soft , as before .
Experiment 16 .
i Needles hardened at the ends at a red Directive 4 heat .
force , Parallelogram 1315 Rhombus 1020 Pierced rhombus 1185 Experiment 17 .
Ends hardened at a bright red Directive force .
' Parallelogram 158 Rhombus -97 Pierced rhombus 1o85 The ends hardened at a red heat as near to that employed in Experiment i6 , as possible .
Experiment 18 .
Ends hardened at a red heat .
Di force .
Parallelogram 135 Rhombus 11 Pierced rhombus 2 ?
05 Here it should seem that an increase of power has been l7 obtained by the ends of the needles having been first hardened at a higher temperature , and then at a lower .
The needles were now hardened throughout at a bright red heat , Experiment 19 .
Directive Hardened throughout at a bright red .
force Parallelogram 1120 Rhombus 1o05 sPierced rhombus o8o The needles softened by laying them on a red hot pokeri till they passed beyond the blue to a greyish white .
This was carried to within an inch of their extremities , which remained hard .
Experiment 2o .
Softened from the middle to a greyish Directive white , ends hard .
force .
Parallelogram 136o Rhombus 1o Pierced rhombus 110 The tempering was carried throughout the needles , the parallelogram was reserved for another purpose .
Experiment 21 .
Directive Softened throughout to a greyish white .
force .
Rhombus 1075 Pierced rhombus 1145 ?
wh-dL ?
h ?
, -_--rP - ... .,118 Experiment 22 .
r v. .
* ... Softened throughout to a greyish white , Directive the ends hardened at a red heat .
force .
Rhombus lo25 Pierced rhombus 1185 Experiment 23 .
Hardened throughout , and then softened Directive to a greyish white , as in Experiment 21 .
force .
Rhombus 1065 Pierced rhombus 180o.~~~~~~~~~ ?
__.I-- ?
-iI9 ?
D ?
P-C ?
D ?
Or This last series of experiments presents a curious circumstance .
From the experiments made by COULOMB , as well as from the general tenor of my own , the rhombus is found capable of receiving a greater directive energy than the parallelogram ; yet here we perceive that the parallelogram , though formec of the very same plate of steel as the other needles , is not only under every circumstance superior to the rhombus , but also to the pierced rhombus .
It is difficult to form any plausible conjecture as to the cause of this difference .
The weight of the rhombus in Experiment io , made of clock spring , was 63 grains ; that made of saw blade weighed 12o grains , or very nearly double .
The directive energy of the former , after having suffered great deterioration , and when not tempered in the most favourable manner , compared with the greatest directive energy of the latter , was as 60o to ii1210 ; but if we refer to Experiment 6 , it may be seen that the greatest directive energy of the clock spring rhombus was 844 , which gives it an advantage of about one third in directive energy over a needle of equal weight made of saw blade .
From Experiment 20 , it should seem that a needle is susl ceptible of the greatest directive power , other circumstances being similar , when it is hardened throughout at a red heat , and then softened from the middle to within an inch of the extremities , till the blue colour which arises has again disappeared .
_I next proceeded to try , in a more regular manner , the effect of different methods of magnetizing , and at the same time to ascertain whether the directive force was influenced by extent of surface , independent of mass .
Two needles were made of the same kind of steel , in the form of right-angled parallelograms , five inches long , the one 0,7 inch wide , and the other half this width .
The widest was reduced in thickness until it was of the same weight as the other , viz. 142 grains .
They were in the same state of stftness as was necessary to work them .
The magnets were placed together perpendicularly on the centre of the needle , their opposite poles 'being joined ; their lower extremities were then separated and kept asunder by placing a piece of wood a quarter of an inch thick between them , their upper extremities remaining in contact .
The magnets were then slid along the needle backwards and forwards from end to end : this was repeated on both sides , till it was conceived the needle must be saturated .
Experiment 24 .
Directive force .
Small parallelogram 655 Large parallelogram 674 The needles were again magnetized in the same manner as before , excepting that the magnets were separated at the top by a piece of wood of the same thickness as that at the bottom .
Experiment e5 .
Directive force .
Small parallelogram 59 Large parallelogram 580 The magnets were placed perpendicularly together on the centre of the needle , and then their lower extremities separated by a piece of wood to the distance of half the length of the needle , the upper extremities remaining in contact .
They were then slid on the needle backwards and forwards from end to end , as before .
Experiment 26 .
Directive force .
Small parallelogram 760 Large parallelogram 780 MD CC X. .
Rf ... .~- , , , - .
' ... ... ... '..-h-.- .
' , ... ... ... , .
, " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
, .
, , 191 R The magnets joined , placed perpendicularly on the centre of the needle , as before , then moved in opposite directions from the centre to the extremities , keeping each magnet perpendicular to the needle ; afterwards joined at a distance from the needle , placed again on its centre , and the operation thus continued .
Experiment t7 .
Directive force .
$ Small parallelogram 993 Large parallelogram 1155 Remarking that the surface of the small parallelogram was unequal , so as to be touched by the magnet in very few places , I filed it flat , and having reduced the large parallelogram to the same weight , they were magnetized by joining the magnets , placing them perpendicularly on the centre of the needle , separating their lower extremities , and carrying them to each end of the needle , the upper ends remaining in contact .
Experiment 98 .
Directive force .
Small parallelogram 1025 Large parallelogram 150 ---- , ~-..~-:~~u ?
, , ? ? ? ? ?
u ?
&amp; a--- , ulp~_p-'150-~T M The needles were next magnetized according to the method of Du HAMEL , the magnets being inclined at an angle 122 of about 45 degrees , and carried , as before , from the centre to the ends of the needle .
Experiment s9 .
D. irective force .
iS Small parallelogram j 70 Large parallelogram 11t70 The magnets forming with the needle an angle go degrees .
Experiment so .
Directive force .
Small parallelogram 1085 Large parallelogram 1195 of about Magnets forming an angle with the needle of or three degrees .
Experiment 31 .
about two Directive force .
Small parallelogram i 6o Large parallelogram w1 75.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Magnets laid flat on the surface of the needle , and drawn from the centre to the ends .
ls$ Experiment 32 .
Directive force .
Small parallelogram 1158 Large parallelogram 1261 Magnets forming with the needle an angle of two or three degrees , their other extremities being connected by a very soft iron wire .
Experiment 33 .
/ . .
' Directive , I~ *~~~ .
force .
Small parallelogram 145 Large parallelogram 1261 The iron wire was now removed and the needle magnetized , as before , at an angle of about two or three degrees .
Experiment 34 .
Directive force .
: Small parallelogram -160 Large parallelogram 1273 I now hardened both the needles throughout at a bright red , and then softened them from the middle to within three quarters of an inch of the ends till the blue had disappeared .
This was done by laying the large parallelogram on a red hot poker , but from the thickness of the small parallelogram this heat was found insufficient , and that of a lamp was employed .
The needles were then magnetized as in the last experiment .
Experiment 35 .
Directive force .
Small parallelogram ^181 i Large parallelogram 160o It occurred to me that the heat employed in tempering the large parallelogram might not have been sufficient , it was therefore exposed to the flame of the lamp , but in doing this , a small piece which weighed io grains was broken off from its end .
It was however re-magnetized , and the directive force was now found to be increased to 172o .
From these last experiments , it appears that the greatest directive force was given to the needle when the magnets were inclined to it in an angle not exceeding two or three degrees , and that this force is little , if at all , influenced by extent of surface ; as I conceive the small difference in favour of the greater surface may be attributed to sone difference in the quality of the steel , or its temper , both of which appear to have very considerable influence on the directive force .
Two needles , the one five , and the other eight inches long , were cut out of the same plate of steel ; they were of equal weight , the short one being of greater width than the other .
Being magnetized to saturation , their directive forces were as follow : 125 Experiment 36 .
Directive force .
Long parallelogram 2275 Short parallelogram 13 They were now hardened at a red heat , and tempered beyond the blue from the middle to within an inch of the extremities .
Experiment 37 .
Directive force .
Long parallelogram 277 t Short parallelogram 1865 If the mean of these two experiments be taken , it will be found , as was observed by COULOMB , that the directive force of a needle of a greater length than 5 inches is probably as its length .
My next object was to repeat the very interesting experiments recently published by Mr. BARLOW , proving the attraction of iron on a ship 's compass to be dependant wholly on extent of surface .
For this purpose I had three cylinders made of soft iron , about two inches and a half in diameter , and nearly the same in height .
One of the cylinders was of sheet iron , less than the 2oth of an inch in thickness ; the second of that kind called chest plate , o , i85 inch thick ; and the third was of solid wrought iron .
The first weighed 2760 , the second 9376 , and the solid cylinder 22929 grains .
Prew a6 vious to the experiments they were all made red hot , to destroy any accidental magnetism .
The compass employed was of a very delicate construction , and the cylinder was so placed that its centre was in i:e direction of a tangent to the zero of the compass , and at the distance of 4,85 from the southern extremity of the needle .
The position of the cylinder was varied six times , and the following were the deviations of the needle .
Sheet iron cy.-Chest plate cycy .
linder .
linder .
Mean ; oQ / o/ o/ 2.515 0 355 15 S34 3-5 -.45 3.2o 2.57 2.5 3.45 2.50 s-5 3-45.o .
i 2 .
5 3.10.55 2.10 3-30 2 I30 2.16 , 316 &lt; 254 $__ _________ ... I.5 Suspecting an error in the experiments with the solid cylinder from an accident which occurred , I repeated the whole with the utmost attention .
The position of each cylinder was now varied eight times .
Mean Sheet iron cyChest plate cySo'id cyldel , .
0/ 0o0i 2.3 2.55 3.15 2.22 2 ?
.50 3$ .
2 2.32 3.20 S.15 2.o0 3.40 ? ?
3 .
o 1.50o 3-40 3.15 2*45 3.528 2.5 2.45 3.10 2-45 1.55 3 .
5 2e58 2.19 3.16 3 4 ... .127 The surfaces of the cylinders determined by very careful measurement were , the sheet iron , 28,54 ; the chest plate , 30,77 ; and the solid cylinder , 28,94 inches .
Reducing the deviations to the same extent of surface , viz. that of the solid cylinder , they become respectively 141 , 184 , and 184 minutes .
These last results perfectly coincide with the deductions of Mr. BARLOW , that the effect of iron on a ship 's compass is as the surface , and is wholly independent of the mass ; but that a certain degree of thickness of the iron ( about two tenths of an inch ) is necessary to the complete developement of this effect .
The following are the principal inferences which may be drawn from the experiments I have detailed .
That the best material for compass needles is clock spring ; but care must be taken in forming the needle to expose it as seldom as possible to heat , otherwise its capability of receiving magnetism will be much diminished .
That the best form for a compass needle is the pierced rhombus , in the proportion of about five inches in length to two inches in width , this form being susceptible of the greatest directive force .
That the best mode of tempering a compass needle is , first to harden it at a red heat , and then to soften it from the middle to about an inch from each extremity , by exposing it to a heat sufficient to cause the blue colour which arises again to disappear .
That in the same plate of steel of the size of a few square inches only , portions are found varying considerably in their capability of receiving magnetism , though not apparently differing in any other respect .
That polishing the needle has no effect on its magnetism .
That the best mode of communicating magnetism to a needle , appears to be by placing it in the magnetic meridian , joining the opposite poles of a pair of bar magnets ( the magnets being in the same line ) , and laying the magnets so joined , flat upon the needle with their poles upon its centre ; then having elevated the distant extremities of the magnets , so that they may form an angle of about two or three degrees with the needle , they are to be drawn from the centre of the needle to the extremities , carefully preserving the same inclination , and having joined the poles of the magnets at a distance from the needle , the operation is to be repeated ten or twelve times on each surface .
That in needles from 5 to 8 inches in length , their weights being equal , the directive forces are nearly as the lengths .
That the directive force does not depend upon extent of surface , but in needles of nearly the same length and form , is as the mass .
That the deviation of a compass needle occasioned by the attraction of soft iron , depends , as Mr. BARLOW has advanced , on extent of surface , and is wholly independent of the nlass , except a certain thickness of the iron , amounting to about two tenths of an inch , which is requisite for the complete development of its attractive energy .

