III .
" On the Rate of Passage of Crystalloids into and out of the Vascular and Non-Vascular Textures of the Body .
" By HIENIY BENCE JONES , A.M. , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 26 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is divided into five sections1st .
On the method of analysis , and its delicacy .
2nd .
Experiments on animals to which salts of lithium were given , upon the rate of their passage into the textures .
3rd .
On the rate of the passage of lithium-salts out of the textures .
4th .
Experiments on healthy persons , and on cases of cataract .
5th .
On the presence of lithium in solid and liquid food .
1 .
Three methods of analysis were followed , according as much or little lithium was present : first , simply touching the substance with a red-hot platinum-wire ; secondly , extracting the substance with water ; thirdly , incinerating the substance and treating it with sulphuric acid , and exhausting with absolute alcohol .
1 , 0 -O of a grain of chloride of lithium in distilled water could be detected , and 61-to oo of chloride of lithium in urine .
2 .
On Rate of Passage into the Textures through the Stomach .
Even in a quarter of an hour three grains of chloride of lithium , given on an empty stomach , may diffuse into all the vascular textures , and into the cartilage of the hip-joint and the aqueous humour of the eye .
In very young and very small guinea-pigs which have received the same quantity of lithium , in thirty or thirty-two minutes it may be found even in the lens ; but in an old pig in this time it will have got no further than the aqueous humour .
If the stomach be empty , in an hour the lithium may be very evident in the outer part of the lens , and very faintly traceable in the inner part ; but if the stomach be full of food , the lithium does not in an hour reach the lens .
Even in two hours and a half lithium may be more marked in the outer than in the inner part of the lens .
In four hours the lithium may be in every part of the lens ; but less evidence of its presence will be obtained there than from the aqueous humour .
In eight hours , even , the centre of the lens may show less than the outer part .
In twenty-six hours the diffusion had taken place equally throughout every part of the lens .
If the lithium is injected under the skin , in ten minutes it may be found in the crystalline lens , and even in four minutes , after the injection of three grains of chloride , the lithium may be in the bile , urine , and aqueous humour of the eye .
22( [ May 4 , 3 .
On the Rate of Passage out of the Textures .
After two grains of chloride of lithium , in six hours the lithium was more distinct in the outer thanr in the inner part of the lens .
In twentyfour hours no difference in the different parts of the lens was detectable .
In forty-eight hours no difference was observed .
In ninety-six hours no lithium was detectable in the lens or cartilage of the hip-joint .
The urine showed lithium very distinctly even in one drop .
After one grain of chloride of lithium , in five hours and a half the lithium was more distinct in the outer than in the inner part of the lens .
In twenty-four hours and a half there was no difference throughout the lens .
In forty-eight hours the watery extract of the lens showed faint traces of lithium .
In seventy-two hours and a half ( three days ) the alcoholic extract of the lens showed no lithium .
The urine still showed lithium distinctly in one drop , and it continued to be found in the watery or alcoholic extract for twenty-one days .
After half a grain of chloride of lithium , in three hours and fifty minutes traces of lithium could be found in the lens , and for thirty-seven or thirtyeight days traces of lithium could be found in the urine .
After a quarter of a grain of chloride of lithium , in five hours and a quarter the aqueous humour showed lithium , and all the organs showed lithium , but none was in the lens .
In another pig , in twenty-four hours all the organs showed less lithium , and none was found in the aqueous humour .
After a quarter of a grain , in five hours and thirty-five minutes lithium was distinct in the aqueous humour , and very faintly traceable in the lens and after sixteen days the minutest traces of lithium could be detected in the lens , the liver , the kidney ; but no trace could be found in the blood .
After three grains of chloride of lithium , in four hours lithium was in the hair of the belly , and for thirty-two days the urinee showed lithium very distinctly .
The thirty-third day after the lithium the lens was found to contain minute traces of lithium , and even after thirty-nine days the lithium was in the alcoholic extract of the urine .
With three grains of chloride of lithium , a young pig in half an hour had lithium in the watery extract of the lens .
In the same time an old pig had no lithium in the lens .
With two grains , a young pig in six hours had lithium distinctly throughout the whole lens .
An old pig in the same time had lithium in the outer part of the lens , but scarcely the minutest trace in the inner part of the lens .
4 .
Experiments on IHealthy Persons and on Cases of Cataract .
Ten grains of carbonate of lithia , taken three or four hours after food by a man , require from five to ten minutes to pass from the stomach to the urine , and this quantity of lithia will continue to produce traces of lithium in the urine for from six to seven days .
s2 1865 .
] 221 Two grains of chloride or carbonate of lithia , taken shortly after food by a boy , gives no appearance in the urine until from ten to twenty minutes ; and this quantity continues to pass out for five , seven , or eight days .
Experiments made by the ordinary mode of analysis showed that four grains of sulphate of protoxide of iron , taken by a man almost fasting , gave a trace in the urine in seven minutes .
Seven grains gave distinct appearance in ten minutes ; and in ten minutes and a half one grain of iodide of potassium , taken by the same man fasting , appeared in the urine in twelve minutes .
When no lithia had been taken , seven cataracts were examined most carefully , and only one showed an exceedingly feeble trace of lithium .
When twenty grains of carbonate of lithia were taken twenty-five minutes before the operation , the lens showed no lithium .
When twenty grains of carbonate of lithia were taken two hours and a half before the operation , the lens showed lithium in the watery cataract .
When twenty grains of carbonate of lithia were taken between four and five hours before the operation , the lens showed lithium in each particle .
When twenty grains of carbonate of lithia were taken seven hours before the operation , the lens showed lithium in each particle .
When twenty grains of carbonate of lithia were taken seven days before the operation , the lens showed not the slightest trace of lithium .
Twenty grains of carbonate of lithia , taken between six and thirty-six hours before death , showed the faintest indications of lithium in the lens .
The cartilage showed lithium very distinctly .
Ten grains of carbonate of lithia , taken five hours and a half before death , gave only faint traces of lithium in the lens , but the cartilage showed lithium very distinctly .
5 .
On the Presence of Lithium in Solid and Liquid Food .
Potatoes showed traces of lithium once in five trials .
Apples showed traces of lithium thrice in four trials .
Carrots showed no lithium in two trials .
Bread showed traces of lithium thrice in three trials .
Cabbage , , , , twice in two trials .
Tea , , , , eight times in ten trials .
Coffee , , , four times in five trials .
Port wine , , , six times in six trials .
Sherry , , , , six times in six trials .
French wine , , , , four times in four trials .
Rhine wine , , , , eight times in eight trials .
Ale , , , twice in three trials .
Porter , , , , twice in three trials .
22 Mutton , beef , and sheep 's kidney showed no lithium : one kidney had a slight trace .
CONCLUSIONS .
1 .
On the Rate of Passage of Solutions of Lithium into the Textures of Animals .
Chloride of lithium taken into the stomach in quantities varying from one quarter of a grain to three grains , will pass into all the vascular parts of the body , and even into the non-vascular textures , in from one quarter of an hour to five hours and a half .
2 .
On the Rate of Passage out of the Textures of Animals .
Chloride of lithium passes out by the skin as well as by the urine ; and thus the animals can redose themselves with chloride of lithium from the hair and feet , and prevent accurate observations .
Hence probably chloride of lithium , in quantities varying from half a grain to three grains , will continue to pass out of the body for thirty-seven , thirty-eight , or thirty-nine days ; and even after thirty-three days , traces may be found in the lens ; but in three or four days no lithium may be detectable in the non-vascular textures .
3 .
In man , carbonate of lithia , when taken in fiveor ten-grain doses , may appear in the urine in five to ten minutes if the stomach is empty , or twenty minutes if the stomach is full , and may continue to pass out for six , seven , or eight days .
In two hours and a half , traces may be in the crystalline lens , and in five or seven hours it may be present in every particle of the lens and in the cartilages .
In thirty-six hours it may be very evident in the cartilages .
And in seven days not the slightest trace may be detectable in the crystalline lens .
4 .
Though in the solid and liquid food infinitesimal quantities of lithium may enter the body , usually no proof of their presence in the organs or secretions can be obtained .

