I. " On the production of Diabetes artificially in animals by the external use of Cold .
" By HENRY BENCE JONES , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 16 , 1861 .
In 1789 Lavoisier wrote:-"La respiration n'est qu'une combustion lent de carbone et d'hydrogene qui est semblable en tout1h celle qui s'ope 're dans un lamp ou dans un bougie allumee ; et sous ce point de vue les animaux qui respirent sonit des v 'itables corps combustibles qui brulfent et se consument .
" The different degrees of oxidation of different substanices in the differeint parts of the body at different times , forms still , and will lonlg continiue to form , one of the largest and most important parts of the animal chemistry of health and of disease .
Notwithstanding all that Professor Liebig has done , the knowledge of the phenomiena of oxidation in the body is only at its commencement..Take , for example , a grainl of starch .
It enters into the body , becomes sugar , is acted on by oxygen , and ultimately passes out as carbonic acid and water .
This is the finial result of the perfect combustion ; but what are the different stages through which the starch -passes ?
what happens if the oxidation stops at any of these stages-that is , when imperfect combustion occurs§ 2s The comnbustion may be made imperfect in at least three different ways -First , by insufficient oxygen .
Secondly , by overwhelming fuel .
Thirdly , by reducing the temperature so low that chemical action is checked .
From each of these causes the following scale of the combustion of starch in the body may be foimed .
Wheni there is perfect com-nbustion , then carboniie acid and water are produce d. WArith less perfect combustioni , oxalic and other vegetable acids are formed .
With the least possible combustion sugar results .
Between perfect comnbustion and the most imperfect combustioni ( that is , between carbonic acid and sugar ) there are probably many steps , formed by many different acids ; and as in a furnace one portion of the coal may be fully burnt , whilst other portions are passing though mtuch less perfect combustions , or are not burnt at all , so different portions of starch may reach different steps in the scale of conmbustion , and sutgar , acetic acid , oxalic acid , carboniic acid , and maniy other acids between acetic and oxalic acid may be simultaneously produiced .
From this account of the oxidation of star chl , it follows that stugar should always be found in the urinie whenever any of the thrce causes mentionied reducc the oxidation in the system to its minimu-m .
In other words , by stopping the combustion that occurs in the body , diabetes should be produced artificially .
It has long been known that an excess of sugar talken into the blood by injection causes temporary diabetes .
This is imperfect comibustion from excess of the combustible substance .
The diabetes of old age , of pregnancy , and after the inhalation of chloroform , may be considered as arising from imperfect combustion in consequence of a deficiency of oxygen .
Bernard 's diabetes from inijury of the floor of the fourth ventricle probably belongs to this cause .
The third mode of checking the chemical actions in the body is by redutcing the temperature .
This has not vet beeni proved to cause diabetes , though it ought as surely to stop oxidation as excess of fuel or insufficiency of oxygen .
The simplest experiment consists in placing an animal in ice .
The cold soon deprives it of feeling , and perfect insensibility is produced .
IMly fiienid Dr. Dickinsoni undertook to give me the urine of rabbits before they were placed in ice , and after they had died from the effect of the cold .
Experiment 1.-This lasted one hour and twelnty-three minutes .
The cold was very carefully applied ; fresh ice was added from time to time .
The temperature in the rectum fell from 1030 F. to 730 F. In the liver immediately after death the temperature was 76 F. The urine made immediately before the application of cold gave no perceptible trace of sugar with suilphate of copper and liquor potasse .
The urine collected after death gave marked reductioni with these reagents , and when boiled with liquor potassrc alonie it deepened in colour .
The acid reaction also was distinctly more marked in this u-rine than in that made before the application of cold .
The total qualntity of urine obtained after death was between two and three draclims .
Experiment 2.-This lasted seven hours and a half , in consequence of an interruption caused by the melting of niearly all the ice suirrounding the rabbit .
The temperature fell from 101 ?
F. in the mouth to 690 F. after death .
The urine malde before the application of cold contained iuo sugar .
The quanitity of urine obtained after death was so small that I was unable to prove to myown satisfaction that sugar was presenit in it .
Experiment 3.-This lasted four hours and five minutes .
The temperature at the commencement was 1010 F. in the mouth .
The urine made before the icing was alkalitne from fixed alkali .
It did not give any trace of sugar , and when mixed with yeast and put in a war m place it rapidly putrefied .
Its specific grav ity was 1014 .
The urine obtained after death was strongly acid , and contained crystals of oxalate of lime .
It gave a plentiful reduction of oxide of copper when boiled with sulphate of copper and liquor potassee .
When boiled with liquor )otassme alone , it deepened markedly in colour .
When mixed with yeast it quickly fermented most distinictly .
The specific gravity was 1020 .
I sent my results to Professor Briicke , and I askedI him to repeat my experiments , and I have received from him the following account writteni in June 1864 .
" The urine of rabl)its always shows small quantities of sugar .
No regi ^ men could make it disappear entirely .
I-Hay , grass , car rots ; hay and grass mixed , and absolute fasting were tried , but all showed traces of sugar in the urine .
" The quantity of urine obtained was too little to allow of the fermentation test being suLccessful , but by using the lead process , the potash , the bismuth , and the copper test gave very feeble evidence of sugar .
The experiinents agreed so well , that I can have no doubt that sugar is always present .
The rabbit proved to be pregnant , and as I had found that in the last stage of pregnancy sugar is often increased in .
the urine , I thoug , ht this might account for the sugar in the urine ; so I took a strong male rabbit , and then again I found that traces of sugar occur normally in the urine of rabbits as in the uirine of man .
" Then I repeated your experiment .
Notwithstanding what I had found , the results were striking .
The quiantity of sugar in the urine after freezing was incomparably greater ( war ganz unvergleicblich gross ) .
" The urine after freezing differed also from the urine of health in the fact that , after precipitating with acetate of lead and filtering , the clear fluid gave a very small precipitate with basic acetate of lead ; but on the addition of ammonia , a plentiful white precipitate fell and deposited itself , leaving the fluid clear .
" I have not made any quantitative experiments ; they are not much to be trusted , and the difference betweeii the urine of rabbits killed by cold and all other rabbit 's urine is so great that it is most distinctly perceptiblc ( auf das Entschiedenste fiihlbar ) without any quantitative experiments .
"

