A Description of a verticalfloating Collimator ; and an Account of its application to Astronomical Observations with a Circle and with a zenithTelescope .
By Captain Henry Kater , V.P.R.S. Read April 24 , and May 1 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 257 .
] The construction of the instrument which forms the subject of this paper , is a material improvement on that of the horizontal floating collimator , of which an account was given by the author in the Philosophical Transactions for 1825 .
Its superiority is derived from its adaptation to the vertical instead of the horizontal position , by which the sources of error arising from the necessity of transferring the instrument to different sides of the observatory , and of taking the float out of the mercury and replacing it , at each observation , are wholly obviated .
The vertical floating collimator has the further advantage of being adapted for use , not only with a circle , but also with a telescope , either of the refracting or reflecting kind .
Such a telescope , furnished with a wire micrometer , and directed to the zenith , becomes a zenith telescope , free from all the objections to which the zenith sector , and the zenith telescope , with a plumb line , are liable .
The instrument itself is supported on a square mahogany stand , which slides on two parallel beams fixed at the upper part of the observatory in the direction of the meridian , and which has a circular aperture in the centre , having at its edge a projecting rim of iron to admit of the passage of the telescope .
The telescope , of which the focal length is 8 inches , is supported in the vertical position by a bridge connecting it with a circular iron ring , 10 inches and -A , -ths in diameter , which floats in mercury .
The mercury is contained in a circular iron trough , the central aperture of which is sufficiently large to allow of its turning freely round the rim , which rises from the margin of the aperture of the stand .
The object-glass of the telescope is placed at its lowest end , and its focus is occupied by a diaphragm , composed of two brass plates , each cut so as to form an angle of 135 ?
, and placed opposite to each other , so that the angular loints are brought to an accurate coincidence ; thus leaving on each side intervening spaces , which form vertical angles of 45 ?
each .
The telescope below , whether belonging to a circle or a zenith telescope , is to be directed so that the image of these angles shall be bisected by the micrometer wire ; for which purpose the diaphragm of the collimator is illuminated by a bull's-eye lantern , placed at a convenient distance upon one of the beams crossing the observatory , the light being reflected downwards by a plane mirror placed on a screen with a suitable aperture immediately above the collimator .
The collimator is then to be turned half round in azimuth , the motion being facilitated by rollers , and limited , as to extent , by two catches which receive a projecting wire fixed to the outer circle of the trough .
When in this situation , the observation of the diaphragm by the telescope , and the bisection of its angles , are to be repeated , and the mean of the two positions will indicate the exact point of the zenith .
Minute directions are given by the author for the construction of all the parts of the collimator , and for their proper adjustments ; to .
gether with an account of the precautions to be taken in the employment of the instrument .
The time required for completing the determination of the zenith point by its means , need not exceed two pminutes ; and if to this be added the time necessary for a second set of observations of the same kind , for the purpose of verification , and of a nearer approach to accuracy , the whole time required will not be more than five minutes , during which it is not probable that any sensible disturbance can have taken place in the position of the instrument from changes of temperature .
Tables are given containing registers of numerous series of experiments , made both by the author and by several of his friends , with a view to determine the stability of the instrument and the degree of reliance that can be placed in the results .
In the first series , out of 60 independent determinations of the zenith point , there are 25 , the error of each of which does not exceed + th of a second ; 37 under Tlths ; 47 under -ths ; 55 under T-fths ; 3 between 4and 5-tenths ; and 2a little above half a second .
But the author thinks it probable that the greater part of these errors , minute as they are , must be attributed to want of power in the micrometer ; which power is directly as the focal length of the object-glass or mirror of the telescope to 42 whbich it is attached , and which necessarily limits the precision of which it is capable .
The author next gives the results of some experiments with a collimator made for Captain Foster , having a float of only 5 inches in diameter , and with a telescope 5 inches long ; the errors generally do not amount to more than -ths of a second .
He then enters into details as to the manner of using the vertical floating collimator in astronomical observations , beginning with the portable azimuth and altitude circle , described by the Rev. F. Wollaston in his FasciculusAstronomicus , and applicable to other similar instruments .
The new collimator affords also the most perfect method of adjusting the line of collimation of a mural circle or of placing it at right angles to the axis .
The author next proceeds to describe the method of applying the instrument to the zenith telescope .
In comparing the observations made by the zenith sector , belonging to the Board of Ordnance , with the zenith telescope used in conjunction with the vertical floating collimator , the mean of errors in the former casewas + 0 " 54 and -0 " ' 75 ; in the latter+ 0"'44 and -0 " 66 .
From observations made on y Draconis , the zenith distance of which at Greenwich is 0 ? ?
2 ' 6"*36 , and at York Gate 00 0 ' 35 " 67 ; the differelce of latitude between the two places was found to be 0 ? ?
2 ' 42 " 03 ; that of Greenwich being 510 28 ' 38"/ 96 , and of York Gate 51 ? ?
31 ' 20"`99 .
The decimals of a second , by the azimuth and altitude circle and the horizontal floating collimator , were *94 ; by the same instrument and the vertical floating collimator , *7 6 ; and by the zenith telescope , and the vertical floating collimator , *92 : the mean being.9 .
From the greater degree of precision attainable by the employment of the vertical floating collimator , from the facility of its construction , the readiness of its application , and the time saved by using it , the author deems it not unreasonable to infer , that ere long , the use of the level and plumb-line in celestial observations will be wholly abandoned .

