An Account of Experiments for determining the Length of the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude of London .
By Capt. Henry Kater , F.R.S. Read January 29 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 33 .
] It has long been a desideratum in science , to determine the precise length of a pendulum vibrating seconds in a given latitude .
Most of those who have undertaken this inquiry have endeavoured to find the centre of oscillation ; but as this depends upon the regular figure and uniform density of the body employed , it involves difficulties which may be considered as insurmountable .
Despairing , therefore , of success in any attempt founded upon such principle , Captain Kater endeavoured to discover some other property of the pendulum less liable to objections ; and was so fortunate as to perceive one which promised an unexceptionable result .
It is known that the centres of suspension and oscillation are reciprocal ; or , in other words , if a body be suspended by its centre of oscillation , its former point of suspension then becomes the centre of oscillation , and the vibrations in both positions will be performed in equal times .
Now as the distance of the centre of oscillation from the point of suspension depends upon the figure of the body employed , if the arrangement of its particles be changed , the place of the centre of oscillation will also suffer a change .
Suppose , then , a body to be furnished with a point of suspension , and another point on which it may vibrate , to be fixed as nearly as can be estimated in the centre of oscillation , and in a line with the point of suspension and centre of gravity ; if the vibrations in each position should not be equal in equal times , they may readily be made so , by shifting a moveable weight , with which the body is to be furnished , in a line between the centres of suspension and oscillation ; when the distance between the two points about which the vibrations were performed , the length of a simple pendulum , and the time of its vibrations , will at once be known , uninfluenced by any irregularity of density or of figure .
The mode of suspension which the author adopted was the knife-edge , of which the various advantages and disadvantages are pointed out , and the modes of overcoming the latter described .
The pendulum consisted of a thin bar of plate-brass , pierced with two triangular holes at the distance of 39-4 inches from each other , to admit the knife-edges , which were made of wootz , and finished to an angle of 120 ?
, and firmly screwed to brass knee-pieces .
The pendulum is prolonged at either extremity by a slip of deal , extending about twenty-two inches beyond the knife-edges .
Three weights are employed for the adjustments .
The great weight is immovably fixed beyond the knife-edges ; the second weight slides on the bar , G near the knife-edge , at the opposite end , and may be fixed at pleasure ; the third weight is a small slider , intended to move near the centre of the bar , upon which are engraved divisions of one twentieth of an inch , seen through an opening in the slider .
The support of the pendulum consisted of agate planes bedded in bell-metal .
In proceeding to the details of the experiments , the author acknowledges his obligations to Henry Browne , Esq. F.R.S. , who permitted him to use his house in Portland-place , and his excellent clocks , for the purposes of the investigation .
The greatest daily variation of the clock used as a standard of comparison did not exceed three tenths of a second between the months of February and July .
By the method of coincidences which Captain Kater employed , the number of vibrations made by the pendulum in twenty-four hours might be obtained in the space of e'ight minutes to within half a second of the truth ; and the usual correction was applied for the extent of the arc of vibration .
The pendulum being suspended with the great weight above , the number of vibrations in twenty-four hours was determined ; and if it differed when the pendulum was inverted , it was equalised by moving the second weight , and finally adjusted by the slider , every allowance being made for the temperature , and the height of the barometer being noted .
Thus the number of vibrations in twentyfour hours , of a pendulum equal in length to the distance between the knife-edges at a given temperature and barometrical height , was ascertained .
The next sections of Captain Kater 's communication refer to the apparatus and methods employed for the measurement of the distance between the knife-edges ; for the comparison of the British standard measures of the highest authority ; and to the expansion of the pendulum , which was found to be -00000996 of its length for each degree of Fahrenheit 's thermometer .
After describing the methods of deducing the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds , and the corrections for the buoyancy of the atmosphere , the author makes it appear , that the distance of the knife-edges , at the temperature of 62 ?
Fahr. , by the mean of three several sets of measurements , the greatest difference between any two of which did not amount to w , ,-vi-YTth of an inch , was , upon Sir George Shuckburgh 's scale , 39'44085 inches .
From a table inserted in this paper of twelve sets of experiments , each set consisting of four , from which , and from the preceding measurements , the length of the seconds ' pendulum in vacuo is calculated , it appears that seven of these sets are within -r , , , -o--th of an inch of the mean result ; two a little exceeding - , , , -o , th of an inch ; and of the remaining three , the greatest difference is less than - , -T-th of an inch ; so that the mean result must , it is presumed , be very near the truth .
To the length thus found , the author next applies a correction for the height of the place of observation above the level of the sea .
The advantages of his different methods are then explained ; and the conclusion of the whole is , that the length of the pendulum vibrating 84 , seconds in vacuo , at the level of the sea , measured at the temperature of 620 Fahr. , and the latitude of the place of observation , deduced from the data contained in the trigonometrical survey , being 51.0 31 ' 8 " 4 N. , is , Inches .
By Sir George Shuckburgh 's Standard ... .
39-13860 By General Roy 's Scale ... ... ... ... . .
39 13717 By Bird 's Parliamentary Standard ... ... . .
39-13843

