The Descriptiona of a Floating Collimator .
By Captain Henry Kater , F.R.S. Read January 13 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 147 .
] The apparatus described in this paper ( of which a drawing is now laid on the table ) is intended to determine the situation of the line .
of collimation of a telescope attached to an astronomical circle , with respect to the zenith or horizon in some one position of the instrument ; in other words , to determine the zero point of the divisions on the limb .
This is at present usually performed by the use of the level or the plumb line , or by the reflection of an object from the surface of a fluid .
The author describes the defects and inconveniences of each of these methods .
Those of the plumb line , when applied to small instruments ( to the improvement of which he describes his attention to have been particularly directed , ) are referrible chiefly to want of sufficient delicacy .
Those of the level are referrible to a variety of causes not under the command of the observer ; while observations , by reflection , the most perfect perhaps of any now practised , require an union of favourable circumstances rarely occurring .
Add to these when levels or plumb lines are used , the necessity of reversing the instrument , and observing out of the meridian .
And when observations are made by reflection , that of deferring the corresponding observation to the following night , which has proved so great an inconvenience at Greenwich , as to necessitate the erection of a second circle for the purpose of simultaneous observation .
The principles on which the floating collimator is constructed are two : the first is the property of a telescope employed by Mr. Gauss , and subsequently by Mr. Bessel , in virtue of which the cross wrires of a telescope adjusted to distinct vision on the stars , may be distinctly seen by another telescope , also so adjusted , at whatever distance the telescopes may be placed , provided their axes coincide ; the rays diverging from the cross wires of either telescope , emerging parallel from its object-glass , and being therefore refracted by that of the other telescope to its sidereal focus , as if they came from an infinite distance .
The author here translates an account by Professor Bessel , of a method of using this principle to determine the horizontal or zenith point of a circle by the use of a level , employed to place the collimating or subsidiary telescope in a horizontal position , a method which though characterized by him as the best mode of using a level that has yet been devised , is still liable to the objections urged against levels in general .
The other principle which the author substitutes in the place of the level , is the invariability with respect to the plane of the horizon of a body of determinate figure and weight floating on the surface of a fluid .
In former inquiries he had satisfied himself that a body floating on mercury might be so contrived as to have always , when at rest , the same inclination to the horizon .
He had thus a floating support to -which he could attach a telescope , -a support requiring no adjustment , offering the ready means of extreme accuracy , and precluding all fear of those error which might arise from the use of a level , W ' The collimator in its perfect state consists of a piece ofcast iron 8 inches long , 4 wide , and from w to I an inch thick , having two uprights in the form of Y 's , to which the collimating telescope is firmly fastened .
The support is then floated on mercury in a deal box , somewhat larger than the flat portion of the iron , and having its bottom just covered with mercury .
The float is kept in its situation in the middle of the box , and prevented from moving horizontally by two smooth iron pins projecting from its sides , and moving freely in vertical polished grooves of metal let into the sides of the box .
The whole of the telescope projects above the edges of the box , and a screen of black pasteboard with an aperture equal to that of its object-glass , is fixed to the end of the box to keep off false light .
The instrument was placed on a table attached to the wall of the observatory , and directed ( by looking through the telescope ) to the wires of a fine achromatic furnished with a wire micrometer .
The cross wires of the collimator were then illuminated by a small lantern placed behind its eye-glass with oiled paper interposed .
The object of the author in this arrangement being to ascertain the limits of variability , in the position assumed by the collimator , it was deranged purposely in a variety of ways , by removing and replacing the float , or carrying the whole instrument from its place , and every method he could think of used that could fairly introduce error .
His preliminary trials were made with a wooden float ; but this was soon laid aside after ascertaining that the greatest single error committed in using it , did not exceed 2 " 58 in the p)osition of the horizontal point .
Other floats were then tried , and it was found that the increase of their length and browning their surfaces with nitric acid produced material advantages .
In 151 single results thus experimentally obtained , 28 only were found to give errors in the determination of the horizontal point exceeding 1 " , and only two amounting to 2 " .
But if the means of every successive 5 be taken , and the experiments with the wooden float rejected , the greatest error did not exceed 0 " 4 , and even here the influence of a constant source of error depending on the support of the micrometer employed was apparent .
The author then describes at length the mode of using the collimator and of observing with it .
The instrument hitherto described may be called the horizontal collimator , but he then proceeds to describe a vertical collimator , in which the telescope is fixed perpendicularly to the float and placed immiediately under the axis of the circle .
By this arrangement the necessity of transporting it from one side of the observatory to the other is avoided , the reverse observation being made by merely turning the float half round in azimuth .
It is not necessary that the telescope of the collimator should have a tube , nor does the author appear to regard its length as of any importance , it being merely the direction of its axis which is the subject of examination ; and the accuracy of this examination will depend on the length and power of the telescope of the circle to be collimated .
The adjustment of the cross wires in the exact sidereal focus of its object-glass is , however , a point of the highest importance .
The author next points out an important advantage which this instrument presents , viz. that of enabling the observer , by varying the inclination of his float , to detect erroneous divisions of his circle by bringing different parts of its arc into use ; after which he proceeds to describe an application of his floating collimator , as a permanent verification of the verticality of a zenith tube , and considers that by its use the error , if any , in the zenith distance of a star , will be ultimately referred to inaccurate bisection of the star , or imperfections in the micrometer screws .

