XII .
An Account of some Attempts to imitate the Effects of the Torpedo by Electricity .
By the Hon. Henry Cavendish , F. R. S. ALTHOUGH the proofs brought by Mr. WALSH , that the phenomena of the torpedo are produced by electricity , are such as leave little room for doubt ; yet it must be confessed , that there are some circumstances , which at first sight seem scarcely to be reconciled with this supposition .
I propose , therefore , to examine whether these circumstances are really incompatible with such an opinion ; and to give an account of some attempts to imitate the effects of this animal by electricity .
R. Jan. 18 , 1775 .
It appears from Mr. WALSH'S experiments , that the torpedo is not constantly electrical , but hath a power of throwing at pleasure a great quantity of electric fluid from one surface of those parts which he calls the electrical organs to the other ; that is , from the upper surface to the lower , or from the lower to the upper , the experiments do not determine which ; by which means a shock is produced in the body of a person who makes any part of the circuit which the fluid takes in its motion to restore the equilibrium .
One of the principal difficulties attending the supposition , that these phenomena are produced by electricity , is , that a shock may be perceived when the fish is held under water ; and in other circumstances , where the electric fluid hath a much readier passage than through the person 's body .
To explain this , it must be considered , that when a jar is electrified , and any number of different circuits are made between its positive and negative side , some electricity will necessarily pass along each ; but a greater quantity will pass through those in which it meets with less resistance , than those in which it meets with more .
For instance , let a person take some yards of very fine wire , holding one end in each hand , and let him discharge the jar by touching the outside with one end of the wire , and the inside with the other ; he will feel a shock , provided the jar is charged high enough ; but less than if he had discharged it without holding the wire in his hands ; which shows , that part of the electricity passes through his body , and part through the wire .
Some electricians indeed seem to have supposed that the electric fluid passes only along the shortest and readiest circuit ; but besides that such a supposition would be quite contrary to what is observed in all other fluids , it does not agree with experience .
What seems to have led to this~ mistake is , that in discharging a jar by a wire held in both hands , as in the above mentioned experiment , the person will feel no shock , unless either the wire is very long and slender , or the jar is very large and highly charged .
The reason of which is , that metals conduct surprisingly better than the human body , or any other substance I am acquainted with ; and consequently , unless the wire is very long and slender , the quantity of electricity which will pass through the person 's body will bear so small a proportion to the whole , as not to give any sensible shock , unless the jar is very large and highly charged .
It appears from some experiments , of which I propose shortly to lay an account before this Society , that iron wire conducts about 400 million times better than rain or distilled water ; that is , the electricity meets with no more resistance in passing through a piece of iron wire 400,000,000 inches long , than through a column of water of the same diameter only one inch long .
Seawater , or a solution of one part of salt in 30 of water , conducts 100 times , and a saturated solution of sea salt about 720 times better than rain water .
To apply what hath been here said to the torpedo ; suppose the fish by any means to convey in an instant a quantity of electricity through its electric organs , from the lower surface to the upper , so as to make the upper surface contain more than its natural quantity , and the lower less ; this fluid will immediately flow back in all directions , part over the moist surface , and part through the substance of its body , supposing it to conduct electricity , as in all probability it does , till the equilibrium is restored : and if any person hath at the time one hand on the lower surface of the electric organs , and the other on the upper , part of the fluid will pass through his body .
Moreover , if he hath one hand on one surface of an electric organ , and another on any other part of its body , for instance the tail , still some part of the fluid will pass through him , though much ~ than in the former case ; for as part of the fluid , in its way from the upper surface of the organ to the lower , will go through the tail , some of that part will pass through the person 's body .
Some fluid also will pass through him , even though he does not touch either electric organ , but hath his hands on any two parts of the fishes body whatever , provided one of those parts is nearer to the upper surface of the electric organs than the other .
On the same principle , if the torpedo is immersed in water , the fluid will pass through the water in all directions , and that even to great distances from its body , as is represented in fig. I. where the full lines represent the section of its body , and the dotted lines the direction of the electric fluid ; but it must be observed , that the nearer any part of the water is to the fishes body , the greater quantity of fluid will pass through it .
Moreover , if any person touches the fish in this situation~ either with one hand on the upper surface of an electric organ , and the other on the lower , or in any other of those manners in which I supposed it to be touched when out of the water , some fluid will pass through his body ; but evidently less than when the animal is held in the ~ , as a great proportion of the fluid will pass through the water : and even some fluid will pass through him , though he does not touch the fish at all ; but only holds his hands in the water , provided one hand is nearer to the upper surface of the electric organs than the other .
The second difficulty is , that no one hath ever perceived the shock to be accompanied with any spark or light , or with the least degree of attraction or repulsion .
With regard to this , it must be observed , that when a person receives a shock from the torpedo , he must have formed the circuit between its upper and lower surface before it begins to throw the electricity from one side to the other ; for otherwise the fluid would be discharged over the surface of the fishes body before the circuit was completed , and consequently the person would receive no shock .
The only way , therefore , by which any light or spark could be perceived , must be by making some interruption in the circuit .
Now Mr. WALSH found , that the shock would never pass through the least sensible space of air , or even through a small brass chain .
This circumstance , therefore , does not seem inconsistent with the supposition that the phenomena of the torpedo are owing to electricity ; for a large battery will give a considerable shock , though so weakly charged that the electricity will hardly pass through any sensible space of air ; and the larger the battery is , the less will this space be .
The principle on which this depends will appear from the following experiments .
I took several jars of different sizes , and connected them to the same prime conductor , and electrified them in a given degree , as shown by a very exact electrometer ; and then found how near the knobs of an instrument in the nature of Mr. LANE'S electrometer must be approached , before the jars would discharge themselves .
I then electrified the same jars again in the same degree as before , and separated all of them from the conductor except one .
It was found , that the distance to which the knobs must be approached to discharge this single jar was not sensibly less than the former .
It was also found , that the divergence of the electrometer was the same after the removal of the jars as before , provided it was placed at a considerable distance from them : from which last circumstance , I think we may conclude , that the force with which the fluid endeavours to escape from the single jar is the same as from all the jars together .
It appears , therefore , that the distance to which the spark will fly is not sensibly affected by the number or size of the jars , but depends only on the force with which they are electrified ; that is , on the force with which the fluid endeavours to escape from them : consequently , a large jar , or a great number of jars , will give a greater shock than a small one , or a small number , electrified to such a degree , that the spark shall fly to the same distance ; for it is well known , that a large jar , or a great number of jars , will give a greater shock than a small one , or a small number , electrified with the same force .
In trying this experiment , the jars were charged very weakly , insomuch that the distance to which the spark would fly was not more than the 20th of an inch .
The electrometer I used consisted of two straws , 10 inches long , hanging parallel to each other , and turning at one end on steel pins as centers , with cork balls about 1/ 4 of an inch in diameter fixed on the other end .
The way by which I estimated the divergence of these balls , was by seeing whether they appeared to coincide with parallel lines placed behind them at about ten inches distance ; taking care to hold my eye always at the same distance from the balls , and not less than thirty inches off .
To make the straws conduct the better , they were gilded , which causes them to be much more regular in their effect .
This electrometer is very accurate ; but can be used only when the electricity is very weak .
It would be easy , however , to make one on the same principle , which should be fit for measuring pretty strong electricity .
The instrument by which I found to what distance the spark would fly is represented in fig. 2 .
; it differs from Mr. LANE'S electrometer no otherwise than in not being fixed to a jar , but made so as to be held in the hand .
The part ABCDEFGKLM is of baked wood , the rest of brass ; the part GKL being covered with tinfoil communicating with the brass work at FG ; and the part ABM being also covered with a piece of tinfoil , communicating with the brass work at CD .
I next took four jars , all of the same size ; electrified one of them to a given degree , as shown by the electrometer ; and tried the strength of the shock which it gave ; and found also to what distance the spark would fly .
I then took two of the jars , electrified them in the same degree as before , and communicated their electricity to the two remaining .
The shock of these four jars united , was rather greater than that of the single jar ; but the distance to which the spark would fly was only half as great .
Hence it appears , that the spark from four jars , all of the same size , will not dart to quite half so great a distance as that from one of those jars electrified in such a degree as to give a shock of equal violence ; and consequently the distance to which the spark will fly is inversely in a rather greater proportion than the square root of the number of jars , supposing them to be electrified in such a degree that the shock shall be of a given strength .
It must be observed , that in the last mentioned experiment , the quantity of electric fluid which passed through my body was twice as great in taking the shock of the four jars , as in taking that of the single one ; but the force with which it was impelled was evidently less , and I think we may conclude , was only half as great .
If so , it appears that a given quantity of electricity , impelled through our body with a given force , produces a rather less shock than twice that quantity , impelled with half that force ; and consequently , the strength of the shock depends rather more on the quantity of fluid which passes through our body , than on the force with which it is impelled .
That no one could ever perceive the shock to be accompanied with any attraction or repulsion , does not seem extraordinary ; for as the electricity of the torpedo is dissipated by escaping through or over the surface of its body , the instant it is produced , a pair of pith balls suspended from any thing in contact with the animal will not have time to separate , nor will a fine thread hung near its body have time to move towards it , before the electricity is dissipated .
Accordingly I have been informed by Dr. PRIESTLEY , that in discharging a battery he never could find a pair of pith balls suspended from the discharging rod to separate .
But , besides , there are scarce any pith balls so fine , as to separate when suspended from a battery so weakly electrified that its shock will not pass through a chain , as is the case with that of the torpedo .
In order to examine more accurately , how far the phenomena of the torpedo would agree with electricity , I endeavoured to imitate them by means of the following apparatus .
ABCFGDE fig. 3 .
is a piece of wood , the part ABCDE of which is cut into the shape of the torpedo , and is 163/ 4 inches long from A to D , and 103/ 4 broad from B to E ; the part CFGD is 40 inches long , and serves by way of handle .
MNnm is a glass tube let into a groove cut in the wood .
ww is a piece of wire passing through the glass tube , and soldered at w to a thin piece of pewter Rr lying flat on the wood , and intended to represent the upper surface of the electric organs .
On the other side of the wood there is placed such another glass tube , not represented in the figure , with a wire passing through it , and soldered to another piece of pewter of the same size and shape as Rr intended to represent the lower surface of those organs .
The whole part ABCDE is covered with a piece of sheep 's skin leather .
In making experiments with this instrument , or artificial torpedo as I shall call it , after having kept it in water of about the same saltness as that of the sea , till thoroughly soaked , I fastened the end of one of the wires , that not represented in the drawing for example , to the negative side of a large battery , and when it was sufficiently charged , touched the positive side with the end of the wire ww ; by which means the battery was discharged through the torpedo : for as the wires were enclosed in glass tubes , which extended about an inch beyond the end of the wood FG no electricity could pass from the positive side of the battery to the negative , except by flowing along the wire ww to the pewter Rr , and thence either through the substance of the wood , or along the wet leather , to the opposite piece of pewter , and thence along the other wire to the negative side .
When I would receive a shock myself , I employed an assistant charge the battery , and when my hands were in the proper position , to discharge it in the above mentioned manner by means of the wire ww .
In experiments with this torpedo under water , I made use of a wooden trough ; and as the strength of the shock may , perhaps , depend in some measure on the size of the trough , and on the manner in which the torpedo lies in it , I have in fig. 4 .
given a vertical section of it ; the torpedo being placed in the same situation as in the figure .
ABCDE is the trough ; the length BC is 19 inches ; the depth AB is 14 ; and the breadth is 13 ; consequently , as the torpedo is two inches thick in the thickest part , there is about 5 1/ 2 inches distance between its sides and those of the trough .
The battery was composed of 49 jars , of extremely thin glass , disposed in 7 rows , and so contrived that I could use any number of rows I chose .
The outsides of the jars were coated with tinfoil ; but as it would have been very difficult to have coated the insides in that manner , they were filled with salt water .
In a battery to answer the purpose for which this was intended , it is evidently necessary that the metals serving to make the communications between the different jars should be joined quite close : accordingly care was taken that the contacts should be made as perfect as possible .
I find , by trial , that each row of the battery contains about 15 3/ 4 times as much electricity , when both are connected to the same prime conductor , as a plate of crown glass , the area of whose coating is 100 square inches , and whose thickness is 55/ 1000 of an inch ; that is , such that one square foot of it shall weigh 10 0z .
12 pwts .
; and consequently , the whole battery contains about 110 times as much electricity as this plate(a ) .
The way by which this was determined , and which , I think , is one of the easiest methods of comparing the quantity of electricity which different batteries will re(a ) I find , by experiment , that the quantity of electricity which coated glass of different shapes and sizes will receive with the same degree of electrification , is directly as the area of the coating , and inversely as the thickness of the glass ; whence the proportion which the quantity of electricity in this battery bears to that in a glass or jar of any other size , may easily be computed .
ceive with the same degree of electrification , was this : First of all , supposing a jar or battery to be electrified till the balls of the abovementioned electrometer separated to a given distance , I found how much they would separate when the quantity of electricity in that jar or battery was reduced to one-half .
To do this , I took two jars , as nearly equal as possible , and electrified one of them till the balls separated to a given degree , and then communicated its electricity to the other ; and observed to what distance the balls separated after this communication .
It is plain , that if the jars were exactly equal , this would be the distance sought for ; as in that case the quantity of electricity in the first jar would be just half as much after the communication as before ; but as I could not be sure that they were exactly equal , I repeated the experiment by electrifying the second jar , communicating its electricity to the first , and observing how far the balls separated ; the mean between these two distances will evidently be the degree of separation sought , though the jars were not of the same size .
Having found this , I electrified one row of the battery till the balls separated to the first distance , and repeatedly communicated its electricity to the plate of coated crown glass , taking care to discharge the plate each time before the communication was made , till it appeared by the electrometer , that the quantity of electricity in that row was reduced to one half .
I found it necessary to do this between 11 or 12 times , or 11 1/ 4 times as I estimate it .
Whence the quantity of electric fluid in the row may be thus determined .
Let the quantity in the plate be to that in the row as x to 1 ; it is plain , that the electricity in the row will be diminished each time it is communicated to the plate , in the proportion of 1 to 1+x , and consequently after being communicated 11 1/ 4 times will be reduced in the proportion of 1 to 1+x 11 1/ 4 ; therefore , 1+x 11 1/ 4=2 ; and 1+ x=2 1/ 111/ 4 .
Whence the value of x may easily be found by logarithms .
But the readiest way of computing it , and which is exact enough for the purpose , is this : multiply the number of times which you communicated the electricity of the row to the plate , by 1,444 ; and from the product subtract the fraction 1/ 2 ; the remainder is equal to 1/ x , or the number of times by which the electricity in the row exceeds that in the plate .
The way by which I estimated the strength of the charge given to the battery , was taking a certain number of jars , and electrifying them till the balls of the electrometer separated to a given distance , and then communicating their electricity to the battery .
This method proved very convenient ; for by using always the same jars , I was sure to give always the same charge with great exactness ; and by varying the number and size of the jars , I could vary the charge at pleasure , and besides could estimate pretty nearly the proportion of the different charges to each other .
It was also the only convenient method which occurred to me ; for I could not have done it conveniently by charging the whole battery till an electrometer suspended from it separated parated to a given distance ; because in most of the experiments the electricity was so weak , that a pair of fine pith balls suspended from the battery would separate only to a very small distance ; and counting the number of revolutions of the electrical machine is a very fallacious method .
I found , upon trial , that though a shock might be procured from this artificial torpedo , while held under water , yet there was too great a disproportion between its strength , when received this way , and in air ; for if I placed one hand on the upper , and the other on the lower surface of electric organs , and gave such a charge to the battery , that the shock , when received in air , was as strong as , I believe , that of the real torpedo commonly is ; it was but just perceptible when received under water .
By increasing the charge , indeed , it became considerable ; but then this charge would have given a much greater shock out of water than the torpedo commonly does .
The water used in this experiment was of about the same degree of saltness as that of the sea ; that being the natural element of the torpedo , and what Mr. WALSH made his experiments with .
It was composed of one part of common salt dissolved in 30 of water , which is the proportion of salt usually said to be contained in sea water .
It appeared also , on examination , to conduct electricity not sensibly better or worse than some sea water procured from a mineral water warehouse .
It is remarkable , that if I used fresh water instead of salt , the shock seemed very little weaker , when received under water than out ; which not only confirms what was before said , that salt water conducts much better than fresh ; but , I think , shows , that the human body is also a much better conductor than fresh water : for otherwise the shock must have been much weaker when received under fresh water than in air .
As there appeared to be too great a disproportion between the strength of the shock in water and in air , I made another torpedo , exactly like the former , except that the part ABCDE instead of wood was made of several pieces of thick leather , such as is used for the soles of shoes , fastened one over the other , and cut into the proper shape ; the pieces of pewter being fixed on the surface of this , as they were on the wood , and the whole covered with sheep skin like the other .
As the leather , when thoroughly soaked with salt water , would suffer the electricity to pass through it very freely , I was in hopes that I should find less difference between the strength of the shock in water and out of it , with this than with the other .
For suppose that in receiving the shock of the former torpedo under water , the quantity of electricity which passed through the wood and leather of the torpedo , through my body , and through the water , were to each other as T , B , and w ; the quantity of electricity which would pass through my body , when the shock was received under water , would be to that which would pass through it , when the shock was received out of water , as B/ B +T+W to B/ B + T ; as in the first case , the quantity which would pass through my body would be the B/ B +T+W part of the whole ; and in the latter the B/ B +T part .
Suppose now , that the latter torpedo conducts N times better than the former ; and consequently , that in receiving its shock under water , the quantity of electricity which passes through the torpedo , through my body , and through the water , are to each other as NT , B , and w ; the quantity of electricity which will now pass through my body , when the shock is received under water , and out of water , will be to each other as B/ B +NT+W to B/ B +N T ; which two quantities differ from each other in a less proportion than B/ B +T+W and B/ B + T : consequently , the readier the body of the torpedo conducts , the greater charge will it require to give the same shock , either in water or out of it ; but the less will be the difference between the strength of the two shocks .
It should be observed , that this alteration , so far from making it less resembling the real torpedo , in all probability makes it more so ; for I see no reason to think , that the real torpedo is a worse conductor of electricity than other animal bodies ; and the human body is at least as good , if not a much better conductor than this new torpedo .
The event answered my expectation ; for it required about three times as great a charge of the battery , to give the same shock in air , with this new torpedo as with the former ; and the difference between its strength when received under water and out of it , was much less than before , and perhaps not greater than in the real torpedo .
There is , however , a considerable difference between the feel of it under water and in air .
In air it is felt chiefly in the elbows ; whereas , under water , it is felt chiefly in the hands , and the sensation is sharper and more disagreeable .
The same kind of shock , only weaker , was felt if , instead of touching the sides , I held my hands under water at two or three inches distance from it .
It is remarkable , that I felt a shock of the same kind , and nearly of the same strength , if I touched the torpedo under water with only one hand , as with both .
Some gentlemen who repeated the experiment with me thought it was rather stronger .
This shows , that the shock under water is produced chiefly by the electricity running through one 's hand from one part to the other ; and that but a small part passes through one 's body from one hand to the other .
The truth of this will appear with more certainty from the following circumstance ; namely , that if I held a piece of metal , a large spoon for instance , in each hand , and touched the torpedo with them instead of my hands , it gave me not the least shock when immersed in water ; though when held in air , it affected me as strongly if I touched it with the spoons as with my hands .
On increasing the charge , indeed , its effect became sensible : and as well as I could judge , the battery required to be charged about twelve times as high to give the same shock when the torpedo was touched with the spoons under water as out of it .
It must be observed , that in trying this experiment , as my hands were out of water , I could be affected only by that part of the fluid which passed through my body from one hand to the other .
The following experiments were made with the torpedo in air .
If I stood on an electric stool , and touched either surface of the electric organs with one hand only , I felt a shock in that hand ; but scarcely so strong as when touching it in the same manner under water .
If I laid a hand on one surface of the electric organs , and with the other touched the tail , I felt a shock ; but much weaker than when touching it in the usual manner ; that is , with one hand on the upper surface of those organs , and the other on the lower .
If I laid a thumb on either surface of an electric organ , and a finger of the same hand on any part of the body , except on or very near the same surface of the organs , I felt a small shock .
In all the foregoing experiments , the battery was charged to the same degree , except where the contrary is expressed : they all seem to agree very well with Mr. WALSH'S experiments .
Mr. WALSH found , that if he enclosed a torpedo in a flat basket , open at the top , and immersed it in water to the depth of three inches , and while the animal was in that situation , touched its upper surface with an iron bolt held in one hand , while the other hand was dipped into the water at some distance , he felt a shock in both of them .
I accordingly tried the same experiment with the artificial torpedo ; and if the battery was charged about six times as high as usual , received a small shock in each hand(a ) .
No sensible difference could be perceived in the strength , whether the torpedo was enclosed in the basket or not .
The trough in which this experiment was tried was 36 inches long , 141/ 2 broad , and 16 deep ; and the distance of that hand which was immersed in the water from the electric organs of the torpedo , was about 14 inches .
As it was found necessary to charge the battery so much higher than usual , in order to receive a shock , it follows , that unless the fish with which Mr. WALSH tried this experiment were remarkably vigorous , there is still too great a disproportion between the strength of the shock of the artificial torpedo when received under water and out of it .
If this is the case , the sault might evidently be remedied by making it of some substance which conducts electricity better than leather .
When the torpedo happens to be left on shore by the retreat of the tide , it loosens the sands by flapping its fins , till its whole body , except the spiracles , is buried ; and it is said to happen sometimes , that a person accidentally treading on it in that situation , with naked feet , is thrown down by it .
I therefore filled a box , 32 inches long and 22 broad , with sand , thoroughly soaked with salt water , to the depth of four inches , and placed the torpedo in it , entirely covered with the sand , except the upper part of its convex surface , and laid one hand on its electrical organs , and the other on the wet sand about 16 inches from ( a ) As well as I could judge , the battery required to be charged about 16 or 20 times as high , to give a shock of the same strength when received this way as when received in the usual manner with the torpedo out of water .
it .
I felt a shock , but rather weak ; and as well as I could judge , as strong as if the battery had been charged half as high , and the shock received in the usual way .
I next took two thick pieces of that sort of leather which is used for the soles of shoes , about the size of the palm of my hand ; and having previously prepared them by steeping in salt water for a week , and then pressing out as much of the water as would drain off easily , repeated the experiment with these leathers placed under my hands .
The shock was weaker than before , and about as strong as if received in the usual way with the battery charged one-third part as high .
As it would have been troublesome to have trod on the torpedo and sand , I chose this way of trying the experiment .
The pieces of leather were intended to represent shoes , and in all probability the shoes of persons who walk much on the wet sand will conduct electricity as well as these leathers .
I think it likely , therefore , that a person treading in this manner on a torpedo , even with shoes on , but more so without , may be thrown down , without any extraordinary exertion of the animal 's force , considering how much the effect of the shock would be aided by the surprise .
One of the fishermen that Mr. WALSH employed assured him , that he always knew when he had a torpedo in his net , by the shocks he received while the fish was at several feet distance ; in particular , he said , that in drawing in his nets with one of the largest in them , he received a shock when the fish was at twelve feet distance , and two or three more before he got it into his boat .
His boat was afloat in the water , and he drew in the nets with both hands .
It is likely , that the fisherman might magnify the distance ; but , I think , he may so far be believed , as that he felt the shock before the torpedo was drawn out of water .
This is the most extraordinary instance I know of the power of the torpedo ; but I think seems not incompatible with the supposition of its being owing to electricity ; for there can be little doubt , but that some electricity would pass through the net to the man 's hands , and from thence through his body and the bottom of the boat , which in all probability was thoroughly soaked with water , and perhaps leaky , to the water under the boat : the quantity of electric fluid , however , taking this circuit , would most likely bear so small a proportion to the whole , that this effect can not be accounted for , without supposing the fish to exert at that time a surprisingly greater force than what it usually does .
Hitherto , I think , the effects of this artificial torpedo agree very well with those of the natural one .
I now proceed to consider the circumstance of the shock 's not being able to pass through any sensible space of air .
In all my experiments on this head , I used the first torpedo , or that made of wood ; for as it is not necessary to charge the battery more than one-third part as high to give the same shock with this as with the other , the experiments were more likely to succeed , and the conclusions to be drawn from them would be scarcely less convincing : for I find , that five or six rows of my battery will give as great a shock with the leathern torpedo , as one row electrified to the same degree will with the wooden one ; consequently , if with the wooden torpedo and my whole battery , I can give a shock of a sufficient strength , which yet will not pass through a chain of a given number of links , there can be no doubt , but that , if my battery was five or fix times as large , I should be able to do the same thing with the leathern torpedo .
I covered a piece of sealing wax on one side with a slip of tinfoil , and holding it in one hand , touched an electrical organ of the torpedo with the end of it , while my other hand was applied to the opposite surface of the same organ .
The shock passed freely , being conducted by the tinfoil ; but if I made , with a penknife , as small a separation in the tinfoil as possible , so as to be sure that it was actually separated , the shock would not pass , conformably to what Mr. WALSH observed of the torpedo .
I tried the experiment in the same manner with the LANE'S electrometer described in p. 202 , and found that the shock would not pass , unless the knobs were brought so near together as to require the assistance of a magnifying glass to be sure that they did not touch .
I took a chain of small brass wire , and holding it in one hand , let the lowest link lie on the upper surface of an electric organ , while my other hand was applied to the opposite surface .
The event was , that if the link , held in my hand , was the fifth or sixth from the bottom , and consequently , that the electricity had only four or five links to pass through besides that in my hand , I received a shock ; so that the electricity was able to force its way through four or five intervals of the links , but not more .
One gentleman , indeed , found it not to pass through a single interval ; but in all probability the link which lay on the torpedo happened to bear more loosely than usual against that in his hand .
If instead of this chain I used one composed of thicker wire , the shock would pass through a great number of links ; but I did not count how many .
It must be observed , that the principal resistance to the passage of the electrical fluid is formed by the intervals of the lower links of the chain ; for as the upper are stretched by a greater weight , and therefore pressed closer together , they make less resistance .
Consequently the force required to make the shock pass through any number of intervals , is not twice as great as would be necessary to make it pass through half the number .
For the same reason it passes easier through a chain consisting of heavy links than of light ones .
Whenever the electricity passed through the chain , a small light was visible , provided the room was quite dark .
This , however , affords no argument for supposing that the phenomena of the torpedo are not owing to electricity ; for its shock has never been known to pass through a chain or any other interruption in the circuit ; and consequently , it is impossible that any light should have been seen .
In all these experiments , the battery was charged to the same degree ; namely , such that the shock was nearly of the same strength as that of the leathern torpedo , and which I am inclined to think , from my conversation with Mr. WALSH , may be considered as about the medium strength of those of a real one of the same size as this .
It was nearly equal to that of the plate of crown glass in p. 206 .
electrified to such a degree as to discharge itself when the knobs of a LANE'S electrometer were at ,0115 inches distance ; whence a person , used to electrical experiments , may ascertain its strength .
The way I tried it was by holding the LANE'S electrometer in one hand , with the end resting on the upper surface of the plate , and touching the lower surface with the other hand , while an assistant charged the plate by its upper side till it discharged itself through the electrometer and my body .
There is , however , a very sensible difference between the sensation excited by a small jar or plate of glass like this , and by a large battery electrified so weakly that the shock shall be of the same strength ; the former being sharper and more disagreeable .
Mr. WALSH took notice of this difference ; and said , that the artificial torpedo produced just the same sensation as the real one .
As it appeared , that a shock of this strength would pass through a few intervals of the links of the chain , I tried what a smaller would do .
If the battery was charged only to a fourth or fifth part of its usual height , the shock would not pass through a single interval ; but then it was very weak , even when received through a piece of brass wire , without any link in it .
This chain was quite clean and very little tarnished ; the lowest link was larger than the rest , and weighed about eight grains .
If I used a chain of the same kind , the wire of which , though pretty clean , was grown brown by being exposed to the air , the shock would not pass through a single interval , with the battery charged to about one-third or one-half its usual strength .
It appears , that in this respect the artificial torpedo does not completely imitate the effects of the real one , though it approaches near to it ; for the shock of the former , when not stronger than that of the latter frequently is , will pass through four or five intervals of the links of a chain ; whereas the real torpedo was never known to force his through a single interval .
But , I think , this by no means shows , that the phenomena of the torpedo are not produced by electricity ; but only that the battery I used is not large enough .
For we may safely conclude , from the experiments mentioned in p. 200 .
and 202 .
that the greater the battery is , the less space of air , or the fewer links of a chain , will a shock of a given strength pass across .
For greater certainty , however , I tried , whether if the whole battery and a single row of it were successively charged to such a degree , that the shock of each should be of the same strength when received through the torpedo in the usual manner , that of the whole battery would be unable to pass through so many links of a chain as that of a single row(b ) .
In order to which I made the following machine .
( b ) The battery , as was before said , was divided into seven rows , each of which could be used separately .
GM , fig. 5 .
is a piece of dry wood ; Ff , Ee , Dd , Cc , Bb , and Aa , are pieces of brass wire fastened to it , and turned up at bottom into the form of a hook , on which is hung a small brass chain , as in the figure , so as to form five loops , each loop consisting of five links ; the part G is covered with tinfoil , which is made to communicate with the wire Aa .
If I held this piece of wood in one hand , with my thumb on either of the wires Ff , Ee , &amp;c. and applied the part G to one surface of an electric organ , while with a spoon , held in the other hand , I touched the opposite surface , I received a shock , provided the battery was charged high enough , the electricity passing through all that part of the chain between Aa , and my thumb ; so that I could make the shock pass through more or fewer loops , according to which wire my thumb was placed on ; but if the charge was too weak to force a passage through the chain , I felt no shock , as the wood was too dry to convey any sensible quantity of electricity .
The event of the experiment was , that if I charged the whole battery to such a degree that the shock would but just pass through two loops of the machine , and then charged a single row to such a degree as appeared , on trial , just sufficient to give a shock of the same strength as the former , it passed through all five loops ; whether it would have passed through more I cannot tell .
If , on the other hand , I gave such a charge to the whole battery , and also to the single row , as was just sufficient to force a passage through two loops of the chain , the shock with the whole battery was much stronger than that with the single row .
It must be observed , that in the foregoing machine , each loop consisted of the same number of links , and the links of each loop were stretched by the same weight ; so that it required no more force to impell the electricity through one loop than another , which was my reason for using this machine rather than a plain chain .
Considerable irregularities occurred in trying the above experiments , and indeed all those with a chain ; for it frequently happened , that the shock would not pass with the battery charged to a certain degree , when perhaps a minute after , it would pass with not more than threefourths of the charge .
The irregularity , however , was not so great but that , I think , I may be certain of the truth of the foregoing facts ; especially as the experiments were repeated several times .
The uncertainty was at least as great in the experiments with LANE'S electrometer , when the knobs were brought so close together , as is necessary in experiments of this kind .
It appears therefore , that if the whole battery , and a single row of it , are both charged in such a degree as to give a shock of the same strength , the shock with the whole battery will pass through fewer loops of the chain than that with the single row ; so that , I think , there can be no doubt , but that if the battery had been large enough , I should have been able to give a shock of the usual strength , which yet would not have passed through a single interval of the links of a chain .
On the whole , I think , there seems nothing in the phenomena of the torpedo at all incompatible with electricity ; A E D BC FEDCBAC MG AB fedcba M Fig. 5 .
B ARE C M W m D r Fig. 1 .
C D BE FG K ML Fig. 2 .
F N n G W tricity ; but to make a complete imitation of them , would require a battery much larger than mine .
It may be asked , where can such a battery be placed within the torpedo ?
I answer , perhaps it is not necessary that there should be any thing analogous to a battery within it .
The case is this ; it appears , that the quantity of electric fluid , transferred from one side of the torpedo to the other , must be extremely great ; for otherwise it could not give a shock , considering that the force with which it is impelled is so small as not to make it pass through any sensible space of air .
Now if such a quantity of fluid was to be transferred at once from one side to the other , the force with which it would endeavour to escape would be extremely great , and sufficient to make it dart through the air to a great distance , unless there was something within it analogous to a very large battery .
But if we suppose , that the fluid is gradually transferred through the electrical organs , from one side to the other , at the same time that it is returning back over the surface , and through the substance , of the rest of the body ; so that the quantity of fluid on either side is during the whole time very little greater or less than what is naturally contained in it ; then it is possible , that a very great quantity of fluid may be transferred from one side to the other , and yet the force with which it is impelled be not sufficient to force it through a single interval of the links of a chain .
There seems , however , to be room in the fish for a battery of a sufficient size ; for Mr. HUNTER has shown , that each of the prismatical columns of which the electrical organ is composed , is divided into a great number of partitions by fine membranes , the thickness of each partition being about the 150th part of an inch ; but the thickness of the membranes which form them is , as he informs me , much less .
The bulk of the two organs together in a fish 101/ 3 inches broad , that is of the same size as the artificial torpedos , seems to be about 241/ 2 cubic inches ; and therefore the sum of the areas of all the partitions is about 3700 square inches .
Now 3700 square inches of coated glass 1/ 150 of an inch thick will receive as much electricity as 30500 square inches ,055 of an inch thick ( c ) ; that is , 305 times as much as as the plate of crown glass mentioned in p. 206 , or about 23/ 4 times as much as my battery , supposing both to be electrified by the same conductor ; and if the glass is five times as thin , which perhaps is not thinner than the membranes which form the partitions , it will contain five times as much electricity , or near fourteen times as my battery .
It was found , both by Dr. WILLIAMSON and by a committee appointed by the Philosophical Society of Pensylvania , that the shock of the Gymnotus would sometimes pass through a ohain , though they never perceived any light .
I therefore took the same chain which I used in the foregoing experiments , consisting of 25 links , and suspended it by its extremities from the extreme hooks of the machine described in p. 221 , and applying the end of the machine to the negative side of the battery , ( c ) Vide Note in p. 206 .
touched the positive side with a piece of metal held in the other hand , so as to receive the shock through the chain without its passing through the torpedo ; the battery being charged to such a degree that the shock was considerably stronger than what I usually felt in the foregoing experiments .
I found that if the chain was not stretched by any additional weight , the shock did not pass at all : If it was stretched by hanging a weight of seven penny weights to the middle link , it passed , and a light was visible between some of the links ; but if fourteen pennyweights were hung on , the shock passed without my being able to perceive the least light , though the room was quite dark ; the experiment being tried at night , and the candle removed before the battery was discharged .
It appears , therefore , that if in the experiments made by these gentlemen the shock never passed , except when the chain was somewhat tense , which in all probability was the case , the circumstance of their not having perceived any light is by no means repugnant to the supposition that the shock is produced by electricity .

