XII .
Some experiments on a solid compound of iodine andoxygene , and on its chemical agencies .
By Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , LL. D. F.R.S. Read April 20 , 1815 .
IN the two papers containing researches on iodine which the Royal Society has done me the honour of publishing in the Transactions , I have described a class of bodies consisting of iodine , oxygene , and different bases analogous to the hyperoxymuriates .
In the last of these papers , I mentioned , that I had not been able to procure any binary combination of iodine and oxygene from these compounds , neither by the method proposed by M. GAY LuSSAC , namely , the action of sulphuric acid on the oxyiode of barium , nor by other methods of my own institution ; and that in experiments on the effects of the acids on the oxyiodes , new combinations only were formed .
I have lately resumed this enquiry , and by pursuing a new and entirely different plan of operation , I have at last succeeded in combining oxygene and iodine .
In the following pages I shall describe the circumstances which led me to ascertain the existence of this compound , and I shall detail some experiments on its analysis and its chemical agencies .
In the course of my researches , I observed , that when a solution of the compound of iodine and chlorine was poured into alkaline solutions , or even into certain muriatic solutions , the precipitate was an oxyiode ; and this fact seemed to indicate , that iodine had a stronger attraction for oxygene tha chlorine ; iodine , likewise , has an attraction for chlorine ; it appeared , therefore , extremely probable , that euchlorine , or the gaseous combination of oxygene and chlorine , would be decomposed by heat , and two compounds formed , one of oxygene and iodine , and the other of iodine and chlorine , or that a triple compound would be produced from which chlorine could be easily separated , and on submitting the idea to the test of experiment , I found that I had not been deceived .
To produce the compound of oxygene and iodine , it is necessary merely to bring the euchlorine and iodine together at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere .
As soon as the euchlorine comes in contact with the iodine , there is an immediate action , its colour changes to bright orange , and a liquid is formed .
When the euchlorine is in sufficient quantity , a white substance likewise appears .
By the application of a gentle heat , the orange compound of chlorine and iodine may be made to rise in vapour ; and the compound of oxygene and iodine remains .
When this compound is required to be dry , the euchlorine should be passed through dry muriate of lime ( calcane ) before it is admitted to the iodine .
The apparatus that I have employed for producing the substance is a curved bent tube , in the form of an inverted L ( r ) , closed at one end , the closed leg of the tube being longest , and which serves as a retort for generating the gas ; a thin long-necked glass receiver for containing the iodine , and a curved tube of smaller diameter than the first , and cemented or ground into it for conveying the gas into the receiver .
The muriate of lime is placed in some dry paper in the upper part of the large curved tube and to produce the substance from 40 grains of iodine , 1oo grains of the hyperoxymuriate should be used , and four times the quantity of solution of muriatic acid of specific gravity about 1.105 ; a very small spirit lamp should be employed to generate the gas ; and to prevent explosions , the heat should be applied with great care , and only to the bottom of the tube .
The compound of oxygene and iodine when entirely freed by heat from the compound of oxygene and chlorine , appears as a white semi-transparent solid ; it has no smell , but a strong astringent sour taste .
Its specific gravity is considerable , for it rapidly sinks in sulphuric acid .
When heated strongly , it decomposes , undergoing fusion at the moment , and is entirely converted into gaseous matter and iodine , leaving no residuum whatever .
It requires for its entire decomposition , a heat which is rather below the boiling point of olive oil , and there seems to be little or no increase of temperature in the process .
Its nature is proved both by analysis and synthesis , for when euchlorine acts upon iodine , the volatile substance produced , has all the characters of the body produced by the immediate action of chlorine on iodine ; and when the compound I am describing is decomposed in a pneumatic apparatus , the gas formed is found to be pure oxygene , and the solid sublimate produced , is pure iodine .
I endeavoured to determine the proportions of the elements in the compound , by decomposing it in glass tubes carefully weighed , and ascertaining the loss of weight of the tube , and the volume of oxygene evolved .
I have used very small quantities of the substance , but as my balance is delicate , I eodo not think there can be any considerable error in the results .
I give those which I consider as the most accurate .
In one experiment , 3 grains of the substance afforded a quantity of oxygene equal to 517.3 grain measures of water , and lost in weight.68 .
In a second experiment , e grains afforded 348.3 grain measures of oxygene .
In a third experiment , i grain yieldled 191 grain measures of oxygene .
Many experiments that I have lately made , have convinced me , that in my first paper I rated the number representing the proportion in which iodine combines too low ; indeed at the time , I stated that my results afforded rude approximations , they demonstrated merely that iodine was represented by a very high number .
In an experiment recently made with care , 50 grains of the iode of potassium decomposed by nitric acid , afforded 32.8 grains of nitre .
According to this result , the number representing the proportion in which iodine combines is 227.3 ; but I do not vetlture to state this number as exact , as I am not secure of the purity of the hydrate of potassa from which the iode was made .
The compound of iodine and oxygene is very soluble in water ; it slowly deliquesces in a moist atmosphere , but remains unaltered when the air is dry ; its solution first reddens , and then destroys vegetable blues , and reduces other vegetable colours to a dull yellow .
When its aqueous solution is heated , as the water rises in vapour , it gradually thickens , gains the consistence of a syrup , becomes pasty , and at length by a stronger heat yields the solid substance unaltered ; unless a sufficient heat is applied to decompose a portion of it , when it gains a purplish tint apparently from some iodine set free .
The pasty substance that it forms is evidently an hydrate , for it yields moisture during its decomposition .
, o6 Its action upon inflammable bodies is such as might be expected from its composition .
When it is heated , mixed with charcoal , sulphur , resin , sugar , or the combustible metals in a finely divided state , detonations are produced ; and its solution rapidly corrodes all the metals which I have exposed it to , and it acts both upon gold and platinum , but much more intensely on the first of these metals .
When a solution of it is poured into solutions of the alkalies or alkaline earths , or when made to act on their carbonates , oxyiodes or triple compounds of oxygene , iodine , and the metallic bases , are the results .
By its action on solution of ammonia , a substance is produced apparently the same as that which is formed by the action of the compound of iodine and chlorine , saturated with chlorine on the same solution , and which I have mentioned in a former Paper , and which , consequently , must be regarded as an oxyiode of ammonia .
When an aqueous solution of the compound is poured into a solution of the soluble salts of baryta and strontia , a copious precipitate of their respective oxyiodes is produced .
The oxyiode of barium , as I have mentioned in my last cormmunication on iodine , is a compound very slightly soluble in water , that of strontium is rather more soluble ; and those of calcium , magnesium , glucinum , ittrium , aluminum , zirconum , are more so , and I believe in the order in which they have been named , It forms combinations with all the metallic oxides I have tried its agency upon , and precipitates lead and mercury from their nitrous solutions .
The action of the compound upon acids is much more singular than that upon alkalies , eaiths , or metallic oxides .
It appears to form combinations with all the fluid or solid acids to which I have been able to expose it , that it does not decompose .
When sulphuric acid is dropped into a concentrated solution of it in hot water , a solid substance is precipitated , which consists of the acid and the compound ; for on evaporating the solution by a gentle heat , nothing rises but water .
On increasing the heat in an experiment of this kind , the solid substance formed , fused ; and on cooling the mixture , rhomboidal crystals formed of a pale yellow colour , which were very fusible , and which did not change at the heat at which the compound of oxygene and iodine decomposes , but sublimed unaltered .
When urged by a much stronger heat , it partially sublimed , and partially decomposed , affording oxygene , iodine , and sulphuric acid .
With hydro-phosphoric acid , the compound presents pheiomena precisely similar , and they form together a solid , yellow , crystalline combination .
It dissolves in solution of hydro-phosphorous acid , but on heating the combination , iodine is immediately produced by a decomposition of part of the compound , and the remaining part unites to the phosphoric acid formed .
When hydro-nitric acid is poured into a concentrated solution of it , white crystals form in plates of a rhomboidal figure , and which when dried , partially decompose , and partially sublime at a much lower heat than the sulphuric or phosphoric compounds , and afford hydro-nitric acid , oxygene , and iodine .
It dissolves in solution of oxalic acid , but by a very gentle heat , the oxygene of the compound acts on the inflammable bases of the acids , and iodine and carbonic acid are disengaged in great quantities .
By liquid muriatic acid , the substance is immediately decomposed , and the compound of chlorine and iodine is formed .
When boracic acid was added to a solution of the new compound , it dissolved in it by heat , and did not crystallize on cooling .
By evaporation , a solid white substance was procured , not so easily decomposed by heat as the compound itself .
The taste of all these acid compounds is very sour , though in different degrees of intensity : they redden vegetable blues , and they diss'olve gold and platinum .
When they are made to act on the alkalies or earths , or on saline solutions which they are capable of decomposing , common neutral salts and oxyiodes are formed at the same time .
The .
facts of the combination of the new compound with acids , serve to explain the phenomena of the action of these substances , on the oxyiodes which I have described in my last paper on iodine , and they confirm the opinions there stated on the nature of this action .
The substance procured by M. GAY LUSSAC , by the action of sulphuric acid on the solution of the oxyiode of barium , and which he has supposed to be a pure combination of oxygene and iodine mixed with a little sulphuric acid , has evidently for its base the combination just now described of sulphuric acid and the new compound , and , as I have shown , it likewise contains baryta .
However minute the quantity of sulphuric acid made to act on oxyiode of barium , a part of it is always employed to form the compound acid ; and the residual fluid contains both the compound acid , and a certain quantity of the original salt .
That this compound acid is a true chemical combination , is evident from the observations already detailed , and from MiDCCCXV .
E e its crystalline form .
There is every reason to believe , that the proportions of its elements are definite .
In one experiment I found , that a small quantity of the new compound in being converted into the rhomboidal crystals , gained rather less than half its original weight from the addition of the acid , i e. 2 grains became 2.8 grains .
In experiments in which the products of the decomposition of the compounds from phosphoric and sulphuric acids were collected , the acids disengaged were found in their state of hydrates , from which it is probable , that the crystalline compounds are hydrates , and that the common acids carry their definite proportion of water into the combination .
It is not indeed unlikely , that the presence of water is connected with the phenomenon of combination , and there is an instance of this .
kind which I long ago pointed out .
Sulphurous acid gas , and nitrous acid gas , appear to have no action on each other , unless water be present ; but with the vapour of water they form a solid crystalline hydrate .
Reasoning from analogy , it is probable , that a compound of oxygene may be formed , containing less oxygene than the new compound .
I have made many experiments with the hope of discovering a body of this kind ; but without any decided success .
When the solution of the new compound is made to act on the double compound of iodine and the alkaline metals , iodine is produced , which during its sublimation , yields no gaseous product .
Iodine heated in a solution of the new compound slightly colours it , but this appears to be merely in consequence of its combining with the water ; and the iodine rises in vapour with the water without decomposing the compound .
In some experiments on the action of 91o euchlorine on iodine , in which the iodine was in great excess , the solid substance formed had a chocolate tint ; but this may possibly have depended upon a small quantity of free iodine , and when dissolved in water , it afforded by the evaporation of the water , the white compound only .
I detailed in my last paper on iodine , some unsuccessful attempts to procure a compound of oxygene and iodine from the chlorionic acid , the substance produced by the agency of the combination of iodine and chlorine in water , on the idea that water was decomposed in this experiment .
I have made some further researches , on the supposition that it might contain a compound of iodine containing less oxygene than this new substance ; but without any success : neither by distillation at very low temperatures , nor by the action of small quantities of oxide of silver , nor by any other means , have I been able to separate any compound of oxygene from it ; and when it forms triple compounds , the oxyiodes , by its action upon alkalies , or earths , or metallic solutions , it appears that the oxygene of the alkalies or earths is only newly combined at the moment of its operation upon them , an effect assisted by the attraction of the bases of the earths for chlorine .
The conclusion which I formed , that the chlorionic acid is a simple combination of the chlorionic sublimate in water , is still farther proved by the circumstances of the action of muriatic acid on the new solid compound of oxygene and iodine.* Page 209 .
As I have called the compounds of oxygene , iodine , and bases , oxyiodes , I venture to propose a name in conformity , that of oxyiodine for the new solid compound , and oxyiodic acid , for the acid compound it forms with water .
M. GAY LussAc , as I am informed , has proposed in a paper which I have not yet been so fortunate as to procure , but which is said to contain many new and important facts , the name of iodic acid for the compound of oxygene and iodine , the existence of which he conceived he had proved by his experiment on the action of sulphuric acid on the oxyiode of barium , and the terms iodats for the substances , consisting of oxygene , iodine , and bases .
I am willing to pay every compliment to the sagacity of this ingenious chemist , in anticipating the knowledge of the nature of a body , the separate existence of which he had not demonstrated by experiment ; but the term iodic acid does not appear to me sufficiently definite .
For the hydroionic acid , and the chlorionic acid , as well as the oxyiodic acid , may be all called as a class iodic acids , or acids from iodine , and the termination in at , would place the oxyiodes in the common class of neutral salts , from which they differ in many respects .
When they become binary compounds in consequence of their decomposition by heat , though they lose all their oxygene , their neutral and saline character remains unaltered , which is not the case with any other known class of bodies , except the hyperoxymuriates ; and the terms iodes and oxyiodes which I proposed in the first paper , in which the distinction between these bodies was pointed out , sufficiently express the nature of the double and triple compound , and the difference between them .
I am desirous of marking the acid character of oxyiodine combined with water , without applying the name acid to the anhydrous solid .
It is not at all improbable that the action of the hydrogene in the combined water is connected with the acid properties of the compound ; for this acid may be regarded as a triple combination of iodine , hydrogene , and oxygene , an oxyiode of hydrogene , and it is possible that the hydrogene may act the same part in giving character , that potassium , sodium , or the metallic bases perform in the oxyiodes ; and as hydrogene combined with iodine forms a very strong acid , and as this acid would remain , supposing all the oxygene to be taken away from the oxyiodic acid , it is a fair supposition that its elements must have an influence in producing the acidity of the substance .
Reome , Fetruary xo , iS x5 213

