The Bakerian Lecture .
An Account of some new analytical .
Researches on the Nature of certain Bodies , particularly the Alkalies , Phosphorus , Sulphur , Carbonaceous Matter , and the Acids hitherto undecompounded ; with some general Observations on Chemical Theory .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. F.R.S. Ed. and M.R.I.A. Read December 15 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 39 .
] The objects which principally occupied Mr. Davy 's attention in the present lecture are , the elements of ammonia ; the nature of sulphur ; the nature of phosphorus ; the states of the carbonaceous principle in plumbago , charcoal , and diamond ; the analysis of boracic acid ; the analysis of fluoric acid ; with a series of numerous experiments on muriatic acid .
With respect to ammonia , he has been induced to reconsider the subject , not from any doubt which he himself entertained of the correctness of his former results , but on account of the opinion still maintained by Messrs. Berthollet on the non-existence of oxygen in ammonia , and on account of the inference deduced by Messrs. GayLussac and Thenard , from the action of potassium on ammonia , who conclude that potassium is a compound of potash and hydrogen .
Mr. Davy consequently details a variety of processes in which he examined all the circumstances and results of their mutual action .
The potassium employed was procured by passing dry potash through red-hot iron turnings in a gun-barrel , which appears to differ from that obtained by electricity solely in containing a very small portion of iron .
A green glass retort , after the introduction of a piece of potassium , is first exhausted , then filled with ammoniacal gas , and after two subsequent exhaustions , finally filled again with the gas in an extremely pure state .
The potassium thus exposed to ammonia at common temperatures , loses its lustre and becomes white by a thin crust of potash on its surface ; while the gas suffers a slight diminution , and then contains about -lTth of its bulk of hydrogen .
When the potassium is heated by a spirit-lamp , the colour changes from white to a bright azure , thence to bright blue , green , and olive , which is the last state to which the whole of the potassium may be brought by continuation of the heat .
When sufficient ammonia is present to insure the complete saturation of eight grains of potassium , twelve cubic inches of ammoniacal gas disappear , and nearly eight cubic inches of hydrogen are evolved .
The French chemist having stated this quantity to be exactly equal to that given out by the action of an equal quantity of potassium on water , Mr. Davy has made the comparison with great care , and finds the quantity of hydrogen given out by its action upon water to be just 8cubic inches .
The olive-coloured compound formed is combustible , heavier than water , and a conductor of electricity .
It fuses at a low temperature , and then begins to emit ammonia , till its quantity amounts to 44 inches out of 12 cubic inches that had disappeared .
The residuum is then no longer fluid , and begins to give off hydrogen and nitrogen , till the former amounts to 4 inches and the latter to 1iyF , in proportion exactly suited to the formation of ammonia .
When this residuum no longer yields any gas , even at a red heat , a quantity of ammonia may still be formed from it by the addition of water , and amounting to about four cubical inches , and along with these about - , 'gDth of an inch of hydrogen .
The formation of ammonia in this case having proved that a quantity of nitrogen was here combined with the potassium , other experiments were instituted for the purpose of obtaining it separate .
By combustion in oxygen gas , a part of the nitrogen , but not the whole , was obtained ; but by distillation with red oxide of mercury , the product of nitrogen was greater .
For the formation of ammonia from this nitrogen , as much hydrogen is wanted as was originally given out by the ammonia , in the first part of the action of potassium upon it ; but unless oxygen , as well as hydrogen , be supplied , neither potash nor ammonia can be produced ; and if oxygen merely be applied , potash and nitrogen are the result .
In consequence of the supposition of Messrs. Gay-Lussac and Thenard , that they had formed a compound of potassium and hydrogen , Mr. Davy repeated their experiment frequently , without any success ; neither has he , by any other means , been able to form a compound of hydrogen with potassium .
In the residuum obtained by heat , after the action of potassium on ammonia , the nitrogen appears to be combined with an oxide of potassium , in which the oxygen amounts to about three per cent. By greater heat this compound itself sublimes , and does not yield nitrogen without the intervention of oxygen ; as if some portion of the latter were essential to the constitution of nitrogen gas .
Mr. Davy refers to an hypothesis formerly advanced , that all metals may possibly be compounds of unknown bases with hydrogen ; but replies to those arguments by which Messrs. Gay-Lussac and Thenard imagined that they had proved the existence of hydrogen in potassium ; for which there appears to be no foundation in fact .
Un , til hydrogen can be separated from some metallic substance , -until a metal can be deprived of its imflammability by the separation of hyL drogen , that theory must be preferred , which , in explaining all the facts , admits the presence of no ponderable agents of which the existence cannot be proved .
Mr. Davy next proceeds to an examination of sulphur , first by passing discharges through it in a fluid state from a common electric machine , but afterwards with better success by the voltaic battery , and obtained gas from it in sufficient quantity to ascertain that the gas consists wholly of sulphuretted hydrogen .
In the course of the process , the sulphur had acquired the power of reddening litmus .
After long-continued electrization , the sulphur became extremely difficult of fusion and acquired a dirty brown colour .
By the action of potassium on sulphur , sulphuretted hydrogen is also evolved with intense heat and light ; and the circumstances of this operation appear to be similar to what occurs when potassium is heated in contact with resin , camphor , wax , and fixed oils , in close vessels .
For in this case also , great heat is generated , and great quantities of carburetted hydrogen evolved .
In addition to this analogy in their chemical actions , Mr. Davy also remarks , that the physical qualities of these bodies resemble those of sulphur .
They agree in being non-conductors , whether fluid or solid ; transparent when fluid , but semi-transparent when solid , and highly refractive ; but resinous and oily bodies contain a small quantity of hydrogen and oxygen , with a large quantity of carbonaceous matter .
So also in sulphur , the mixture of hydrogen is fully proved , and the existence of oxygen might be inferred from the effect of the residual sulphur on litmus paper , but is more distinctly evinced by the formation of potash when potassium is heated in sulphuretted hydrogen .
From such experiments as were most to be depended upon , it is inferred that the quantity of oxygen in sulphur amounts to about ten per cent. , and hence the intense ignition that occurs in the union of sulphur with potassium , and other metallic bodies , is traced to a more probable source than their mere affinity for sulphur .
The same analogies apply to phosphorus as to sulphur ; the same mode of operating was adopted , and products perfectly analogous were obtained .
By electrization , phosphuretted hydrogen was given out , and the phosphorus became of a deep red brown colour .
By the action of potassium also , phosphuretted hydrogen was obtained , and by the action of acids on the residuum , it appeared that the potassium had gained oxygen from the phosphorus ; and the same inference is drawn from the action of potassium on phosphuretted hydrogen , which appears to contain oxygen in a state of combination , similar to that which obtains in sulphuretted hydrogen .
The same new modes of research are next employed to discover what differences subsist in the states of carbonaceous matter , in plumbago , charcoal , and diamond ; for though late and very accurate experiments have proved that they yield very nearly the same quantities of carbonic acid , it was nevertheless not improbable that new means of analysis might detect chemical differences , correspondent to the extreme difference of their physical properties .
Plumbago , whether acted upon by the voltaic battery or by potassium , yields no elastic product in either case ; but in the latter , merely combines with the potassium unaltered .
Charcoal , on the contrary , by the voltaic apparatus , yielded a considerable quantity of carburetted hydrogen , but did not contribute to the oxidation of the potassium , any more than plumbago had done .
The unconducting nature of the diamond rendered it impossible to apply the voltaic battery with any effect , but it was by no means insensible to the action of potassium .
When these substances were heated together , there was no intensity of action , and no production of elastic fluid .
But the diamond soon blackened at its surface , and was ultimately reduced to a state perfectly resembling plumbago ; part of it at the same time uniting to the potassium .
The addition of carbonaceous matter was not , however , the sole change that had happened to the potassium , as it now extricated a smaller quantity of hydrogen from water than an equal quantity of pure potassium , and had evidently acquired a portion of oxygen from the diamond .
This quantity of oxygen ( though certainly very small ) is thought to be the cause of its non-conducting quality .
Mr. Davy next resumes the analysis of boracic acid , which he had begun in his last Bakerian Lecture .
By means of voltaic electricity , a black matter could be obtained from it that was unaltered by water , but soluble in nitric acid , and when heated to redness , burned slowly , giving off white fumes .
But the quantity of the base that could be thus obtained was too minute for determining distinctly its relation to the acid from which it was produced .
However , by heating together boracic acid with potassium , a large quantity of a similar matter ( as has also been observed by M. Thenard ) was obtained .
In this experiment intense ignition took place at the point of contact of the substances , the potassium appearing to burn by oxygen acquired from the acid , of which eight grains saturated about twenty of potassium .
The residuum did not effervesce in water , which merely dissolved some sub-borate of potash which is formed , and leaves exposed the boracic base as a spongy mass , black in some parts , and dark olive in others .
It appeared to be infusible by heat , but a perfect conductor of electricity .
When acted upon by nitric acid , or burned in oxygen , it was reduced again to the state of boracic acid , probably much heavier than the basis from which it is formed .
When fluoric acid gas was acted on by potassium , fourteen cubic inches disappeared by means of ten grains and a half of potassium , and about two inches and a quarter of hydrogen gas were evolved , apparently from water contained in the gas .
In this experiment , a brownish sublimate was sometimes raised by the heat generated , and at others , a blackish matter remained mixed with a quantity of fluate of potash that is formed .
This matter appears to be fluoric acid , deprived of oxygen , and existing in a state analogous to that of sulphur and phosphorus ; for when the sulphuric or phosphoric acids are decomposed by potassium , the pure bases are not evolved , but sulphurets and sulphites , phosphorets and phosphites , are generated .
Although the attempts to decompose the muriatic acid have not hitherto been equally successful with the preceding , yet many new and interesting results were obtained .
When a quantity of potassium was employed , sufficient to absorb a given quantity of this gas , so much hydrogen was evolved as to prove that it contains full one third its weight of water .
Various attempts were made in consequence , to obtain the acid free from water , but they only terminated in new and singular combinations .
By burning phosphorus in oxymuriatic acid , a very volatile compound was obtained , consisting , apparently , of muriatic acid and phosphoric acid in a dry state , and a second compound of phosphorous acid with muriatic also , free from water .
Corresponding products were also obtained by means of sulphur , consisting of dry sulphuric and muriatic acids ; and the most remarkable circumstance attending these compounds , is , that they do not redden litmus paper , and manifest no marks of acidity till water is added to them .
In exposing potassium to these compounds , a violent detonation takes place , and Mr. Davy has some reason to hope that the muriatic acid suffers decomposition at the time , but he has not yet been able to collect the products for examination ; and the elements of this acid , if separable , must remain a subject for future investigation .

