XXVII .
New analytical Researches on the Nature of certazn Bodies , being an Appendix to the Bakerian Lecture for.18o8 By Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R. S. Prof. Chem. R. I. i. Further Inquiries on the Action of Potassium on Ammonia and on the Analysis of Amtmonia .
HE most remarkable circumstances occurring in the action of potassium upon ammonia are the disappearance of a certain quantity of nitrogene , and the conversion of a part of the potassium into potash .
The first query which I advanced in the last Bakerian Lecture , on this obscure and difficult subject , was whether the gas developed in the first part of the process of the absorption of ammonia by potassium is hydrogene , or a new species of inflammable aeriform substance , the basis of nitrogene ?
Experiments made to determine this point have proved , as I expected , that the gas differs in no respect from that given out during the solution of zinc in sulphuric acid ; or that produced during the action of potassium on water .
By slow combustion with oxygene , it generates pure water only , and * The account of the principal facts respecting the action of potassium on ammonia , in this communication , were read before the Royal Society , February 2 , 8809 .
The paper was ordered to be printed March 16 , 1809 .
At that time , having stated to the Council that I had since made some new experiments on this matter , and on the subjects discussed in the Bakerian Lecture for 18o8 , I received permission to add them to the detail of the former observations for publication .
" ts weight , in a case in which it was mixed with atmospherical air , precisely corresponded with that of an equal quantity of hydrogene .
Another query which I put is , has nitrogene a metallic basis which alloys with the metals employed in the experiment ?
This query I cannot answer in so distinct a manner ; but such results as I have been able to obtain are negative .
I have examined the potassium generated in the process .
It has precisely the same properties as potassium produced in the con tmon experiment of the gun-barrel ; and gives the same results by combusion in oxygene , and by the action of:water .
In cases in which I had distilled the olive-coloured fusible substance in an iron tray , the surface of the tray appeared much corroded , the metal was brittle , and appeared crystallized .
I made a solution of it in muriatic acid ; but hydrogene alone was evolved .
I distilled a quantity of the fusible substance from 9 grains of potassium in an iron vessel , which communicated with a receiver containing about loo grains of mercury , and by a narrow glass tube the gas generated was made to pass through the mercury ; the object of this process was to detect if any of the same substaice , as that existing in the amalgamn from ammonia , was formed ; but during the whole period of distillation , the mercury remained , unaltered in its appearance , and did not effervesce in the slightest degree when thrown into water .
That the nitrogene which disappears in this experiment-is ; absolutely converted into oxygene and hydrogene , and that its elements are capable of being furni^hed from water , is a , 451 conclusion of such importance , and so unsupported by the general order of chemical facts , that it ought not to be admitted , except upon the most rigid and evident experimental proofs .
I have repeated the experiment of the absorption of ammonia by potassium in trays of platina or iron , and its distillation in tubes of iron more than twenty times , and often in the preselce of some of the most distinguislhed chemists in this country , from whose acuteness of observation , I hoped no source of error could escape .
The results , though not perfectly uniform , have all been of the sane kind as those described in page 55 .
Six grains of potassium , the quantity constantly used , always caused the disappearance of from 1o to 1.5 cubical inches of well dried ammonia .
From 5.5 to 6 cubical inches of hydrogene were produced , a quantity always inferior to that evolved by the action of an equal portion of the metal upon water .
In the distillation from 11 to 17 cubical inches of elastic fluid were evolved , and from 1.5 to 2.5 grains of potassium regenerated .
The quantity of ammonia in the products , varied from a portion that was scarcely perceptible to one twelfth or one thirteenth of the whole volume of elastic fluid : and it was least in those cases in which the absence of moisture was most perfectly guarded against .
Under these circumstances likewise , more potassium was revived ; and the unabsorbable elastic fluid , and particularly the hydrogene in smaller proportion .
When the products of distillation were collected at different periods , it was uniformly found that the proportion of nitrogeine to the hydrogene diminished as the process advanced .
The first portions contained considerably more nitrogene in proportion , than the gases evolved during the electrization of ammonia , and the last portions less .
I shall give the results of an experiment , in which the gases produced in distillation were collected in four different vessels , and in which every precaution was taken to avoid sources of inaccuracy .
The barometer was at 29.8 , thermometer 65 ?
FAHRENHEIT , 6 grains of potassium absorbed 1g cubic inches of well dried ammnonia .
The metal was heated in a tray of platina , and the gas contained in a retort of plate glass .
5.8 cubical inches of hydrogene were produced .
The fusible substance was distilled in an iron tube of the capacity of g cubical inches and half filled with hydrogene , the adaptors connected with the mercurial apparatus contained.8 of common air .
The first portion of gas collected ( the heat being very slowly raised , and long before it had rendered the vessel red ) , equalled 7.5 cubical inches .
It contained.6 of ammonia , 7 of the residuum detonated with 45 of oxygene gas left a residuum of 4 .
The second portion , equal to 3 cubical inches , contained no ammonia .
7.2 measures of it , detonated with 3.8 of oxygene , left a residuum of 3.5 .
The third portion was equal to 5 cubical iches ; at this time the tube was white hot ; it contained no ammonia , 8.5 of it detonated with,.5 of oxygene diminished to 2.5 .
The last portion was a cubical inch and half , collected when the heat was most intense .
4.5 measures , with 3.75 of oxygene , left a residuum of 8.8 .
The iron tube contained , after the experiment , ( as was ascertained by admitting hydrogene when it was cool ) , 2.7 of gas ; which seemed of the same composition as the last portion .
The adaptors must have contained.8 of a similar gas .
The tube contained potash in its lowest part , and in its upper part potassium , which gave by its action upon water 1i cubical inch of hydrogene .
As the largest quantity of hydrogene is always produced at that period of the process , in which the -potassium must be conceived to be regenerated , and in which the gases being in the nascent state , its power of action upon them would be greatest , it occurred to me , that ifnitrogene wasdecomposed in the operation , there would probably be a larger quantity of it destroyed by the distillation of the fusible substance , with a fresh quantity of potassium , than by the distillation of it in its common state .
On this idea I made several experiments ; the results did not differ much from each other , and were such as I had expected .
I shall describe one process made with the same apparatus as that which I have just detailed.-Barometer was at 29.5 , thermometer 70 ?
FAHRENHEIT .
6 grains of potassium were employed in an iron tray ; o cubical inches of ammonia were absorbed , a small globule of metal remained unconverted into the fusible substance .
A fresh piece of potassium , weighing six grains , was introduced into the tray .
The iron tube and the adaptors ( having together a capacity equal to 4.3 cubical inches ) contained common air .
The gas was collected in three portions , there was no absorbable quantity of ammonia in either of them .
The first portion , that produced before the tube became red , was eight cubical inches .
10.25 of it detonated with 3.5 of oxygene diminished to 8 .
The second portion equalled five cubical inches ; C9 of this , with 5 of oxygene , left a residuum of g3 .
Of the third portion , e cubical inches and came over .
g of it , detonated with 5 of oxygene gas , left a residuum of 1.4 .
The iron tube and the adaptors contained , at the end of the experiment , as was proved by cooling and the admission of hydrogene 2.3 cubical inches of gas , which appeared of the same composition as the third portion .
Nearly 7 grains of potassium were recovered .
A comparison of these results , with those stated in the preceding page , will fully prove , that there is a much smaller proportion of nitrogene to the hydrogene , in the case in which the olive-coloured substance is distilled with potassium , than in the other case , and there is likewise a larger quantity of potassium converted into potash .
The loss of ritrogene , and the addition of oxygene to the potassium , are sufficiently distinct in both processes ; and the want of a correspondence between these results , and those of the experiment detailed in page 55 , are not greater than might be expected , when all the circumstances of the operation are considered .
In the instance , in which a double quantity of potassium was employed , more potash must have been formed from the oxygene of the common air in the tubes ; and the fusible substance , in passing through the atmosphere , absorbs in different cases different quantities of oxygene and of moisture ; during the intervals of the removal of the different portions of gas likewise , some globules are lost .
In instances when the heat has been more rapidly raised , IN2 4S55 have generally found more potassium destroyed , and less nitrogene in proportion in the aeriform products .
In such cases likewise , the loss of weight has been much greater ; the gases have been always clouded , and the adaptors , after being exposed to a moist air , emitted a smell of ammonia ; from which it seems likely that small quantities of the dark gray substance described in page 50 of this Volume , are sometimes carried over undecompounded in the operation .
In some late experiments , I substituted for the iron tube , a tube of copper , which had been bored from a solid piece , and the sides of which were nearly a quarter of an inch in thickness .
My object in using this tube was not only to prevent the heat from being too rapidly communicated to the fusible substance , but likewise to be secure that no metallic oxide was present , for though the iron tubes had been carefully cleaned , yet still it was possible that some oxide , which could not be separated from the welded parts , might exist , which of course would occasion the disappearance of a certain quantity of potassium .
I shall give the results of one of the processes , which I regard as most correct , made in the tube of copper .
The barometer was at 30.5 ; thermometer was at 59 ?
FAHRENHEIT .
The tube contained two cubical inches and half , and was filled with hydrogene .
6 grains of potassium , which had absorbed ix cubical inches : of ammonia in a copper tray were employed .
The adaptors connected with the mercurial apparatus and the stop-cocks , contained.7 of atmospherical air .
The gas given off was collected in two portions .
The first portion was equal to 11 cubical inches .
It contained.8 of ammonia , 11 of the residuum , detonated with 8 of oxygene , left 8 .
The second portion equalled 2 cubical inches .
They contained no ammonia .
lo of this gas , with 8 of oxygene detonated , left a residuum of 10 .
There remained in the tube and adaptors 1.1 cubical inch of gas .
The quiantity of hydrogene produced by the action of the potassium , which had been regenerated , equalled 4.5 cubical inches .
In this experiment the heat was applied much more slowly than in any of those in which the iron tube was used , and even at the end of the operation , the temperature was little more than that of cherry red .
In the upper part of the stop-cock there was found a minute quantity of gray powder , which gave ammonia by the operation of moisture .
In no case , in which I have used the copper tube in like processes of slow distillation , has there been less than 4 grains of potassium revived ; and the proportion of nitrogene to the hydrogene in the gas evolved has been uniformly much greater than in processes of rapid distillation in the tubes of iron ; but the whole quantity of elastic matter procured considerably less .
Copper has a much stronger affinity for potassium * than Copper heated in potassium speedily dissolves , and diminishes its fusibility ; but potassium requires a white heat to enable it to combine with iron .
In another experiment , in which I distilled the fusible substance in an iron tray , contained in the copper tube , a considerable quantity of copper , that had been dissolved , was found in the state of powder deposited upon the tray , or loose in the bottom of the tube .
457 iron .
It occurred to me as probable , that this attraction , by preventing the potassium from rising in vapour at its usua ' temperature , and likewise by the general tendency of such combination to give greater density , might occasion a diminution of its action upon the nitrogene in the nascent state .
Ammonia has a strong attraction for the oxide of copper , and it consequently is not unlikely that the fusible substance may combine with metallic copper , and that this compound may not be entirely destroyed in the distillation .
And assuming this , it may be conceived that the loss of hydrogene partly depends upon some combination of the basis of ammonia with copper .
I had a tube , of the capacity of ?
s cubical inches , made of wrought platina , cemented by means of fine gold solder .
The fusible substance was obtained ( as usual from six grains of potassium ) in a tray of platina , where it was brought in contact with a large surface of platina wire ; the distillation was slowly conducted ; but before the temperature of the tube had approached to that of ignition , it dissolved and gave way at the points where it was soldered , and a violent combustion took place .
Only 7 cubical inches of gas were collected ; but of this , allowing for the hydrogene that filled the tube , nearly 3.X ere nitrogene .
I am making preparations for performing the experiment in a bored tube made from a single piece of platina , and likewise in tubes made of other metals , and I hope to be able , in a short time , to have the honour of laying the results before the Society .
I shall make no apology for bringing forward the investigation in its present imperfect state , except by stating that my motive for so doing , is the desire of being assisted or corrected by the opinions and advice of the learned chemical phi-losophers belonging to this illustrious body .
In an investigation connected with almost all the theoretical arrangements of chemistry , and in operations of so much delicacy , it will , I conceive , be allowed , that it is scarcely possible to proceed with too much caution , or to multiply facts to too great an extent .
The different phenomena presented by the processes of distillation in different metallic tubes , may lead to new explanations of this intricate subject , and though the facts cannot be easily accounted for , except on the supposition that nitrogene is an oxide , yet till the proportions and weights are distinctly ascertained , the inquiry cannot be considered as far advanced , for in an experiment , in which the processes are so complicated and delicate , and in which the data are so numerous , it is not easy to be satisfied that every source of error has been avoided , and that every circumstance has been examined and reasoned upon .
All conclusions on the action of potassium on ammonia , are immediately dependent upon the results of the electrical analysis of the volatile alkali .
In a letter , which I received in the course of the last month from Dr. HENRY , that excellent chemist , has stated that he conceives I have rather underrated the quantity of nitrogene in ammonia , according to the proportions given in the Bakerian Lecture for 1807 .
This notice has induced me to repeat the experiment , under new circumstances , and I find not the slightest reason for doubting of the entire accuracy of my former results .
In the new trial , I used mercury which had been recently 459 boiled in the tube for electrization ; the ammonia was introduced after being long dried by caustic potash , from a receiver in which it had not been generated , and which had likewise been inverted over boiling mercury .
The gas eft no perceptible residuum , when absorbed by water deprived of air by boiling .
In this process , 15 measures of ammonia expanded , so as to fill 27 measures ; and the hydrogene by detonation with oxygene , over water freed as much as possible from air , proved to be to the nitrogene as 73.8 to 26.2 .
In the experiment three explosions were made , the oxygene being deficient in the first two ; so that no nitrogene could have been condensed in the form of nitric acid .
Except when precautions of this kind are employed , as I have before noticed , no accurate data can be obtained respecting the proportions of permanent gases obtained from ammonia by electricity .
When the gas is generated and decomposed over the same mercury , there is always a greater expansion than the true one ; and when the mercury is not boiled in the tube , and when common water is used , the nitrogene will be always over-rated , unless this error is counteracted by an opposite error , that of detonating with an excess of oxygene.* Dr. HENRY had the kindness to send me the apparatus , in which he conceived , at that time , that he had witnessed the formation of water in the decomposition of ammonia by elec* It will be seen by Dr. HNR Y 's letter , which immediately precedes this communication , that in repeating his processes , since this paper was written , he has gained results almost precisely the same as those indicated in the text ; and there is every reason to believe , that oo of ammonia in volume uniformly become 18o , when decomposed by electricity , and that the gas produced consists in loo parts of 7+ hydrogene and 26 nitrogene .
-4o tricity , by his ingenious method of applying hygrometrical tests .
I tried one experiment only with it , and in this there seemed to me to be more moisture exhibited in the elastic matter after electrization than before , when it was cooled by the evaporation of ether : but on maturely considering this question , I do not think that the appearance of moisture even offers a decided proof of the existence of loosely combined oxygene in ammonia .
To common hygrometrical tests , water must be less sensible in ammonia than in hydrogene or nitrogene , from its tendency to be precipitated in the form of alkaline solution , and likewise probably from its having a stronger adherence to the gas ; and the elastic fluid generated , from the increase of volume will be capable of containing more aqueous vapour .
It is not easy to determine , with perfect precision , the specific gravity of a gas , so light as hydrogene and even ammonia ; but the loss of weight , which appears to take place in the electrical analysis of ammonia , cannot , I think , with propriety , be referred entirely to this circumstance ; whether the solution that I have ventured to give* be the true one , I shall not , in the present state of the inquiry , attempt to discuss .
The question of ammonia being analogous to other salifiable bases in its constitution , is determined by the phenomena presented by the amalgam from that alkali ; aiad if the conversion of nitrogene into oxygene and hydrogene should be established , it would appear that both hydrogene and nitrogene must be different combinations of amnmonium with oxygene , or with water .
II .
Further Inquiries respecting Sulphur and Phosphorils I have stated , in the last Bakerian Lecture , that hydrogene is produced from sulphur and phosphorus in such quantities , by VOLTAIC electricity , that it cannot well be considered as an accidental ingredient in these bodies .
I have likewise stated , that when potassium is made to act upon them , the sulphurets and phosphurets evolve less hydrogene in the form of compound inflammable gas by the action of an acid , than the same quantity of potassium in an uncombined state , and from this ircumstance , I have ventured to infer , that they may contain oxygene .
On the idea , that sulphur and phosphorus are deprived of some of their oxygene by potassium , it would follow , that when the compounds formed in this experiment are decomposed , these substances ought to be found in a new state ; deoxygenated , as far as is compatible with their existence in contact with water .
With the view of examining the nature of the substances , separated by the action of muriatic acid upon the sulphurets and phosphurets of potassium , I combined a few grains of sulphur and phosphorus , with one fourth of their weight of potassium , and exposed the compounds to the action of a strong solution of muriatic acid .
As in the former cases , less inflammable gas was produced than would have been afforded by equal quantities of the uncombined potassium , and considerable quantities of solid matter separated from both compounds , which after being washed were collected in a filter .
The substance which separated from the sulphuret , was of.46s a dark gray colour , * and was harsh to the touch ; it had no taste , and at common temperatures no smell ; but when heated , it emitted the peculiar odour of sulphur .
Its specific gravity was rather less than that of sulphur .
It softened at a low heat , so as to be moulded like wax between the fingers .
It was a non-conductor of electricity .
WIlen heated upon a surface of glass , it soon fused , entered into ebullition , took fire , and burnt with the same light blue flame as sulphur .
A small particle of it , made to combine with silver , presented the same phenomena as sulphur .
The substance from the phosphuret was of an amber colour , and opaque .
It could not be examined in the air , in the form in which it was collected ( that of a loose powder ) for as soon as it was wiped dry , it took fire , and burnt in the same manner as phosphorus ; when melted under naphtha , it was found to differ from phosphorus , in being much deeper coloured , perfectly opaque , and very brittle .
Its fusibility was nearly the same , and , like common phosphorus , it was perfectly non-conducting .
In experiments upon the union of potassium with sulphur and phosphorus the heat is so intense , that when larger quantities than a few grains are used , the glass tubes are uniformly fused or broken in pieces , and in consequence I have not been able to operate upon such a scale , as to make an accurate examination of the substances just described , and to determine the quantity of oxygene they absorb in being converted into acid .
Metallic vessels of course cannot be employed ; but I Possibly this colour may have been produced by the decomiposition of a fitm of soap of naphtha adhering to the potassium .
90 $6 intend to try tubes of porcelain , in a further investigation of the subject .
It is evident that the sulphur and phosphorus , separated in these processes , are not in their common state ; and the phenomena would certainly incline one to believe that they are less oxygenated .
It may , I know , be said , that it is possible that they are merely combined with more hvdrogene , and that the sulphur in this state is analogous to the hydrogenated sulphur of BERTHOLLET , and to the alcohol of sulphur of LAMPADIUS .
But when I decompounded dry sulphuret of potash by muriatic acid , of the same kind as had been used for decompounding the sulphuret of potassium , the substance produced seemed to be merely in that form , in which , according to the able researches of Dr. THOMSON , it is combined with water ; and notwithstanding the ingenious experiments of M. A. BERTHOLLET and M. ROBIQUET , * the nature of the substance produced during the passage of sulphur over ignited charcoal is far from being fully ascertained .
In a series of experiments , which my brother , Mr. JOHN DAVY , had the goodness to undertake , at my request , in the laboratory of the Royal Institution , on the action of sulphur on charcoal , the products were found to be very different , according as the charcoal employed differed in its nature .
In an instance , in which imperfectly made charcoal was employed , the liquor that passed over left by combustion a residuum that had all the properties of carbonaceous matter , which agrees with the observations of M. M. DESORMES and CLEMENT ; but when the charcoal had been well burnt , there was no such residuum produced .
It was found , that the .
same charcoal might be employed in a number of processes till it was nearly entirely consumed , and that the sulphur , not rendered liquid , might be used for several operations .
In all cases mixtures of sulphurettedd hydrogene gas and hydrocarbonate were evolved .
I particularly examined a specimen of the liquor which had been obtained in the last process from charcoal that had been often used .
It was a non-conductor of electricity , and when the VOLTAIC spark was taken in it , did not evolve gas with more rapidity than sulphur ; and this gas proved to be sulphuretted hydrogene .
Supposing the liquor to contain hydrogene in considerable quantities , I conceived that it must be decomposed by oxymuriatic acid ; but it merely absorbed this substance , depositing crystals of common sulphur , and becoming a fluid similar to the sulphuretted muriatic acid ; though when water was introduced , hydrated sulphur was instantly formed , and muriatic acid gas evolved .
From the quantity of carbonic acid formed by the combustion of the carburetted inflammable gas , produced in the operation of the action of well burnt charcoal upon sulphur , it may be conceived to contain oxygene .
This circumstance , and the fact that no hydrate of sulphur or muriatic acid gas is formed by the operation of oxymuriatic acid upon the liquor , but common sulphur precipitated ; are in favour of the opinion , that the sulphur in this liquor , contains less oxygene than in its common state .
Tliis idea has likewise occurred to * Five measures of the mixed gas , agitated with solution of potash , left a residuum of 3.5 .
These were detonated with 5.5 of oxygene ; the whole diminution , was to 6 , of this residuum 2.5 appeared to be carbonic acid .
Dr. MAftCET , who is engaged in some experiments on the subject , and from whose skill and accuracy , further elucidations of it may be expected .
III .
Further Inquiries respecting carbonaceous Matter .
On the idea which I have stated , page 73 , that the diamond may consist of the carbonaceous matter combined with a little oxygene , I exposed charcoal intensely ignited , by VOLTAIC electricity , * to nitrogene , conceiving it possible that if this body was an oxide , containing oxygene very intimately combined , it might part with it in small proportions to carbonaceous matter , and give an important result .
The charcoal , which had been made with great care , was preserved for a quarter of an hour in a state of ignition , in which platina instantly fused .
It did not appear to change in its visible properties ; but a small quantity of black sublimate , which proved to be nothing more than finely divided carbonaceous matter , collected in an arborescent state upon the platina wire to which the charcoal was attached .
The gas had increased in volume one 'sixth ; but this was owing to the evolution of carburetted inflammable gas from the charcoal , the nitrogene was unchanged in quantity , and far as my examination could go , in quality .
The points of the charcoal where the heat had been intense , were rather harder than before the experiment .
I have mentioned , page lo2 , that charcoal , even when strongly ignited , is incapable of decomposing corrosive sublimate .
When charcoal , in a state of ignition , is brought in contact with oxymuriatic acid gas , the combustion instantly ceases .
I electrified two pieces of charcoal in a globe filled with oxymuriatic acid gas , which had been introduced after exhaustion of the globe .
They were preserved , for nearly an hour , in intense ignition , by the same means that had been employed in the experiment on nitrogene .
At first , white fumes arose , probably principally from the formation of common muriatic acid gas , by the action of the hydrogene of the charcoal upon the oxymuriatic acid , and the combination of the gas so produced , with aqueous vapour in the globe ; but this effect soon ceased .
At the end of the process , the oxymuriatic acid gas was found unaltered in its properties , and copper leaf burnt in it with a vivid light .
The charcoal did not perceptibly differ from the charcoal that had been exposed to nitrogene .
My view in making this experiment , was to ascertain whether some new combination of carbonaceous matter with oxygene might not be formed in the process , and I hoped likewise to be able to free charcoal entirely from combined hydrogene , and from alkaline and earthy matter , supposing they existed in it , not fully combined with oxygene .
That hydrogene must have separated in the experiment , it is not possible to doubt , and on evaporating the deposit on the sides of the globe , which was in very minute quantity , and acted like concentrated muriatic acid , it left a perceptible saline residuum , * IV .
Further Inquiries respecting muriatic Acid .
The experiments on muriatic acid , which I have already had the honour of laying before the Society , show that the ideas which had been formerly entertained respecting the difference between the muriatic acid and the oxymuriatic acid are riot correct .
They prove that muriatic acid gas is a compound of a substance , which as yet has never been procured in an uncombined state , and from one-third to one-fourth of water , and that oxymuriatic acid is composed of the same substance , ( free from water ) united to oxygene .
They likewise prove , that when bodies are oxydated in muriatic acid gas , it is by a decomposition of the water contained in that substance , and when they are oxydated in oxymuriatic acid , it is by combination with the oxygene in that body , and in both cases there is always a union of the peculiar unknown substance , the dry muriatic acid with the oxydated body .
Of all known substances belonging to the class of acids , the dry muriatic acid is that which seems to possess the strongest and most extensive powers of combination .
It unites with all acid matters that have been experimented upon , except carbonic acid , and.with all oxides ( including water ) , and all inflammable substances that have been tried , except those which appear to be elementary , carbonaceous matter and the metals ; and should its basis ever be separated in the pure form , it will probably be one of the most powerful agents in chemistry .
I have lately made several new attempts to procure uncombined dry muriatic acid ; but they have been all unsuccessful .
46"8 I heated intensely , in an iron tube , silex in a very minute state of division , and muriate of soda that had been fused ; but there was not the smallest quantity of gas evolved .
In this case , the silex had been ignited to whiteness before it was used ; but when silex in its common state was employed , or when aqueous vapour was passed over a mixture of dry silex and dry salt in a porcelain tube , muriatic acid gas was developed with great rapidity .
I have stated , page 79 , that a sublimate is formed by the combustion of the olive-coloured oxide of boracium in oxymuriatic acid .
On the idea that this might be boracic acid , and that dry muriatic acid might be separated in the process , I examined the circumstances of the experiment ; but I found the sublimate to be a compound of boracic and muriatic acid , similar to the compound of muriatic and phosphoric acid .
I heated freshly sublimed muriate of ammonia with potassium ; when the quantities were equal , as much hydrogene gas was developed as is generated by the action of water on potassium ; much ammonia was evolved , and muriate of potash formed ; when the potassium was to the muriate as 4 tO l , less hydrogen appeared , and a triple compound of muriatic acid , ammonia , and potassium , or its protoxide was formed , which was of a dark gray colour , and gave ammonia and muriate of potash by the action of water .
There was not the slightest indications of the decomposition of the acid in the experiment .
The process , in which this decomposition may be most reasonably conceived to take place , is in the combustion of potassium in the phosphuretted muriatic acid , deprived by simple distillation with potassium of as much phosphorus as possible .
I am preparing an apparatus for performing this experiment , in a manner which , I hope , will lead to distinct conclusionAs .

