VIII .
On a Combination of Oxymuriatic Gas and Ox Sgne Gas .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. LL. D. Sec. R. S. P ; r C/ zem .
R. I. Read February 21 , 181 .
I SHALL beg permission to lay before the Society the account of some experiments on a compound of oxymuriatic gas and oxygene gas , which , I trust , will be found to iilustrate an interesting branch of chemical enquiry , and whIich offer some extraordinary and novel results , I was led to make these experiments in consequence of the difference between the properties of oxymuriatic gas prepared in different modes ; it would occupy a great length of time to state the whole progress of this investigation , It will , I conceive , be more interesting that I should immediately refer to the facts ; most of which have been witnessed by Members of this Body , belonging to the Committee of Chemistry of the ioyal Institution .
The oxymuriatic gas prepared from manganese , either by mixing it with a muriate and acting upon it by sulphuric acid , or by mixing it with muriatic acid , is when the oxide of manganese is pure , and , whether collected over water or mercury , uniform in its properties its colour is a pale yellowish green ; .
water takes up about twice its volum ; e ; and scarcely gains any colour ; the metals burn in it readily ; it combines withhydrogene without aiy deposition of moisture : it does not .
act on nitrous gas or muriatic acid , or carbonic oxide , or sul phureous gasses , when they have been carefully dried .
It is the substance which I employed in all the experiments on the combinations of oxymuriatic gas , described in my last two papers .
The gas produced by the action of muriatic acid on the salts which have been called hyperoxymuriates , on the contrary , differs very much in its properties , according as the manner in which it is prepared and collected is different .
When much acid is employed to a small quantity of salt , and the gas is collected over water , the water becomes tinged of a lemon colour ; but the gas collected is the same as tIat procured from manganese .
When the gas is collected over mercury , and is procured from a weak acid , and from a great excess of salt , by a low heat , its colour is a dense tint of brilliant yellow green , and it possesses properties entirely different from the gas collected over water .
It sometimes explodes during the time of its transfer from one vessel to another , producing heat and light , with an expansion of volume ; and it may be always made to explode by a very gentle heat , often by that of the hand.'* My brother , Mr. J DAVY , from whom I receive constant and able assistance in all my chemical enquiries , had several times observed explosiouft , in transferring the gas from hyperoxymuriate of potash , over mercury , and he was inclined to attribute the plhonomenon to the combustion of a thin film of mercury , in contact -with a globule of gas .
I several times endeavoured to produce the effect , but without success , till an acid was employed for the preparation of the gas , so diluted as not to afford it without the assistance of heat The change of colour and expansion of volume , when the effect took place , immediately convinced me , that it was owing to a , decomposition of the gas .
It is a compound of oxymuriatic gas and oxygene , mixed with some oxymuriatic gas .
This is proved by the results of its spontaneous explosion .
It gives offi in this process , from to its volume of oxvgene , loses its vivid colour , and becomes common oxymuriatic gas .
I attempted to obtain the explosive gas in a pure form , by applying heat to a solution of it in water ; but in this case , there was a partial decomposition ; and some oxygene was disengaged , and some oxymuriatic gas formed .
Finding that in the cases when it was most pure , it scarcely acted upon mercury , I attempted to separate the oxymuriatic gas with which it is mixed , by agitation in a tube with this metal ; corrosive sublimate formed , and an elastic fluid was obtained , which was almost entirely absorbed by ?
of its volume of water .
This gas in its pure form is so easily decomposable , that it is dangerous to operate upon considerable quantities .
In one set of experiment-s upon it , a jar of strong glass , containing o ccubical inlches , exploded in my hands with a loud report , ?
roducing light ; the vessel was broken , and fragments of it were thrown to a considerable distance .
I analysed a portion of this gas , by causing it to explode over mercury in a curved glass tube , by the heat of a spirit lamp .
The oxymuriatic gas formed , was absorbed by water ; the oxygene was found to be pure , by the test of nitrous gas .
50 parts of the detonating gas , by decomposition , expa3ded so as to become 6o parts .
The oxygene , remaining after the absorption of the oxymuriatic gas , was about 0o parts .
Several other experime.ts were made , with similar results .
So that it may be inferrred , that it consists of X in volume of cxymuriatic gas , and i in voluinme oxygene and the oXyMDDCcCX .
X 157 gene in the gas is condensed to half its volume .
Circumstances conformable to the laws of combination of gaseous fluids , so ably illustrated by M. GAY LUSSAc , and to the theory of definite proportions .
I have stated on a former occasion , that approximations to the numbers representing the proportions in which oxygene and oxymuriatic gas combine , are found in 75 and $3.9 .
And this compound gas contains nearly these quantities.* The smell of the pure explosive gas somewhat resembles that of burnt sugar , mixed with the peculiar smell of oxymuriatic gas .
Water appeared to take up eight or ten times its volume ; but the experiment was made over mercury , which might occasion an error , though it did not seem to act on the fluid .
The water became of a tint approaching to orange .
When the explosive gas was detonated with hydrogene , equal to twice its volume , there was a great absorption , to more than - , and solution of muriatic acid was formed ; when the explosive gas was in excess , oxygene was always expelled , a fact demonstrating the stronger attraction of hydrogene for oxymuriatic gas than for oxygene .
I have said that mercury has no action upon this gas in its purest form at common temperatures .
Copper and anti* In page 245 of the Phil. Trans. for I8Io , I have mentioned that the specific gravity of oxymuriatic gas , is between 74 and 75 grains per ioo cubical iincnes .
The gas that I weighed , was collected over water and procured from hyperoxymuriate of potash , and at that time I conceived , that this elastic fluid did not differ from the oxymuriatic gas from manganese , except in being purer .
It probably contained some of the new gas ; for I find that the specific gravity of pure oxymuriatic gas from manganese , and muriatic acid is to that of common air , as 244 to 1oo Taking this estimation , the specific gravity of the new gas will be about 2383 and the number representing the proportion in which oxymuriatic gas combines , from this estimation , will be rather higier than is stated above , miony , which so readily burn in oxymuriatic gas , did not act upon the explosive gas in the cold : and when they were introduced into it , being heated , it was instantly decomposed , and its oxygene set free ; and the metals burnt in the oxymuriatic gas .
When sulphur was introduced into it , there was at first no action , but an explosion soon took place : and the peculiar smell of oxymuriate of sulphur was perceived , Phosphorus produced a brilliant explosion , by contact with it in the cold , and there was produced phosphoric acid and solid oxymuriate of phosphorus .
Arsenic introduced into it did not inflame ; the gas was made to explode , when the metal burnt with great brilliancy in the oxymuriatic gas .
Iron wire introduced into it did not burn , till it was heated so as to produce an explosion , when it burnt with a most brilliant light in the decomposed gas .
Charcoal introduced in it ignited , produced a brilliant flash of light , and burnt with a dull red light , doubtless owing to its action upon the oxygene mixed with the oxymuriatic gas .
It produced dense red fumes when mixed with nitrous gas , and there was an absorption of volume .
When it was mixed ' with muriatic acid gas , there was a gradual diminution of volume .
By the application of heat the absorption was rapid , oxymuriatic gas was formed , and a dew appeared on the sides of the vessel .
These experiments enable us to explain the contradictory accounts that have been given by different authors of the properties of oxymuriatic gas .
That the explosive compound has not been collected before , X is owing to the circumstance of water having been used for receiving the products from hyperoxymuriate of potash , and unless the water is highly saturated with the explosive gas , nothing but oxymuriatic gas is obtained ; or to the circumstance of too dense an acid having been employed .
This substance produces the phenomena which Mr. CHENEVIX , in his able paper on oxymuriatic acid , referred to the hyperoxygenised muriatic acid ; and they prove the truth of his ideas respecting the possible existence of a compound of oxymuriatic gas , and oxygene in a separate state .
The explosions produced in attempts to procure the products of hyperoxymuriate of potash by acids are evidently owing to the decomposition of this new and extraordinary substance .
All the conclusions which I have velntured to make respecting the undecompounded nature of oxymuriatic gas , are , I conceive , entirely confirmed by these new facts .
If oxymuriatic gas contained oxygene , it is not easy to conceive , why oxygene should be afforded by this new compound to muriatic gas , which must already contain oxygene in intimate union .
Though on the idea of muriatic acid being a compound of hydrogene and oxymuriatic gas , the phenoinena are such as might be expectedo If the power of bodies to burn in oxymuriatic gas depended upon the presence of oxygene , they all ought to burn witii much more energy in the new compound ; but copper aid antimony , and mercury , and arsenic , and iron , and sulphur have no action upon it , till it is decomposed ; and they act then according to their relative attractions on the oxygene , or on the oxymuriatic gas .
There is a simple experiment which illustrates this idea Let a glass vessel containing brass foil be exhausted , and the new gas admitted , no action will take place ; throw in a little nitrous gas , a rapid deconposition occurs , and the metal burns with great brilliancy .
Supposing oxyge no and oxymuriatic gas to belong to the same class of bodies ; the attraction between them might be conceived very weak , as it is found to be , and they are easily seFarated from each other , and made repulsive by a very low degree of heat .
The most vivid effiects of combustion known , are those produced by the condeinsation of oxygene or oxymruriatic gas ; but in this instance , a violent explosion with heat and light are produced by their separation , and expansion , a perfectly novel circumstance in chemical philosophy .
This compound destroys dry vegetable colours , but first gives them a tint of red This and its considerable absorbability by water would incline one to adopt Mr. CHENEVIXS idea that it approaches to an acid in its nature .
It is probably combined with the peroxide of potassium in the hyperoxymuriate .
That oxymuriatic gas and oxygene combine and separate from each other with .
such peculiar phenonmena , appears strongiy in favour of the idea of their being distinct , though analogous species of matter .
It is certainly possible to defend the hypoth heis that oxymuriatic gas consists of oxygene united to an unknown basis ; but it would be ossble likewise to de fend the spcculation that it contains hydrogene .
Like oxygcne it has not yet been decomposed ; and .
I sonetime ago made an experiment , which , like most of the others I have brought forward , is very adverse to the idea .
of lts contai"nig oxygene .
I passed the solid oxymuriate of phosphorus in vapour , and oxygene gas together through a green glass tube heated to redness .
A decomposition took place , and phosphoric acid was formed , and oxymuriatic gas was expelled .
Now , if oxygene existed in the oxymuriate of phospho.rus , there is no reason why this change should take place .
On the idea of oxymuriatic gas being undecompounded , it is easily explained .
Oxygene is known to have a stronger attraction for phosphorus than oxymuriatic gas has , and consequently ought to expel it from this combination .
As the new compound in its purest form is possessed of a bright yellow green colour , it may be expedient to designate it by a name expressive of this circumstance , and its relation to oxymuriatic gas .
As I have named that elastic fluid Chlorine , so I venture to propose for this substance the na me Euchlofine , or Euchloric gas from su and Xxwpo ; .
The point of Nomenclature I am not , however , inclined to dwell upon .
I shall be content to adopt any name that may be considered as most appropriate by the able chemical philosophers attached to this Society .
* In page 27 , line 1 , of the B]akerian lecture , for &lt; " water separated and L1BAvius 's liquor was formed , " read " ' a compound of water and Li BAVIUS'S liquor separated .
" In page 21 , it is stated that magnesia is not decomposed by oxymuriatic gas at a red heat .
From some experiments of M. M. GAY LuSSAC , and THiENARD , Bullet .
de la Societ .
Phil. My , 18 to , it appears that oxygene is procured by passing oxymuri ; tic gas over magnesia , at a high temperature , and that a muriate indecomposable by heat is proved .
They attribute:h .
presence of this oxygene to the decomposition of the acid , but according to all andlogies , it must arise from the decompoition of the earth .
i6a

