The Bakerian Lecture , on some new Phenomena of chemical Changes produced by Electricity , particularly the Decomposition of the fixed Alkalies , and the Exhibition of the new substances which constitute their bases ; and on the general Nature of alkaline Bodies .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. M.R.I.A. Read November 19 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 1 .
] In this lecture Mr. Davy , after recalling to our recollection the series of experiments described in his last Bakerian lecture , in which various bodies , consisting of known ingredients , having the highest known affinities for each other , were decomposed by the agency of electricity , reminds us also of a conjecture which he then formed , that a greater intensity of the same power might likewise overcome the affinities of other elements which had not hitherto been separated , and proceeds to inform us that this conjecture is now fully verified ; for that by a laborious experimental application of the powers of electro-chemical analysis , he has been enabled to decompose various bodies which have appeared simple when examined by common chemical means .
Those of his experiments which are in the most mature state , relate to the decomposition of the fixed alkalies , and to the evolution of new and extraordinary bodies which constitute their bases .
His first attempts to effect the decomposition of these alkalies were defeated by the presence of water , since on that occasion he employed saturated solutions of them in water .
In his second attempt , since solid dry potash is a perfect non-conductor , he kept it in a state of fusion by intense heat , during electrization by a voltaic battery , consisting of 100 6-inch plates , highly charged .
Under these circumstances the potash became a conductor ; and brilliant light , withi an appearance of flame at the negative wire , seemed to prove the development of combustible matter at this point of contact ; but on account of the heat employed , no such product could be collected .
The method which he next pursued was more successful , as he found that a very slight addition of moisture renders potash a conductor , and that in this state it readily fuses by the electric power , which at the same time effects its decomposition .
When a piece of potash , weighing as much as forty or fifty grains , was exposed under these circumstances to the action of the battery , consisting of 100 plates of six inches , with 150 of four inches in intense activity , the potash began to fuse at both its points of electrization .
There was a violent effervescence at the upper , or positive surface ( by extrication of oxygen gas , as afterwards appeared ) , while at the lower , or negative surface , there was no liberation of elastic fluid , but a formation of small globules , having a bright metallic splendour and a perfect resemblance to quicksilver ; but they tarnished rapidly at their surface , and were in general soon covered by a white film , but occasionally burned with explosion and a white flame .
These globules were soon proved , by numerous experiments , to be a peculiar inflammable principle , the basis of potash .
The platina used , as the medium , for communicating the electric power , was proved not to have contributed otherwise to the result than as a conductor ; for by substituting other conductors , as copper , silver , gold , plumbago , or charcoal , the same substance was formed by means of them .
Its formation was also independent of the presence of air , as it took place equally under an exhausted receiver .
Soda , when acted upon in the same manner , and under similar circumstances , exhibited analogous results ; but it required far greater intensity of action , and could not be decomposed in pieces which exceeded fifteen or twenty grains in weight .
That the substances thus produced were evolved by the decomposition of the alkalies , was proved by careful examination of the gas extricated from the upper surface , which was found to be pure oxygen ; and again proved synthetically , by ascertaining that they absorbed oxygen gas , to which they were exposed , and that the compounds resulting were , in fact , the respective alkalies that had been employed for their formation .
The affinity of the base of potash for oxygen is such , that its metallic lustre very rapidly tarnishes in the atmosphere , by the formation of a white crust , which , by attracting moisture , is soon converted into a saturated solution of potash .
With the base of soda the phenomena are perfectly analogous , but less rapid ; and when either of them is heated in oxygen gas , a rapid combustion , with brilliant white flame , is produced .
Oxygen gas is absorbed in this process , and nothing emitted to affect the purity of the residual air .
It appears , then , says Mr. Davy , that in these facts there is the same evidence for the decomposition of potash and soda into oxygen and their peculiar bases , and for their recomposition , that there is for the decomposition and formation of any metallic oxide , or of the sulphuric or phosphoric acids .
In the analytic experiments no substances are present but the alkalies and a minute portion of water , which , in its common form , seems in no other way essential to the result , than by rendering them capable of becoming fluid , and conductors at a lower temperature than that at which their combustible bases burn ; for if the quantity of water be increased , no such result is obtained .
These bases seem to be repelled , as other combustible substances , by positively electrified surfaces , and attracted by negative surfaces , and hence are formed at that side in the electric circuit .
The properties of these bodies are such , that in the first place it is extremely difficult to preserve them , and to confine them for experiments ; such is their affinity for oxygen , that they act on almost every fluid in which they are attempted to be kept , and more or less on the solid ingredients of the vessels in which they are examined .
The fluid substance containing the least oxygen , and consequently best adapted for preserving them , is naphtha recently distilled .
In this they may be kept many days without any considerable change ; and when taken out of it , their physical properties may be conveniently examined in the atmosphere while their surface is yet moist , and protected by a thin film of naphtha .
The base of potash , at the temperature of 60 ?
, appears as a fluid globule , having the full metallic lustre , opacity , and so much the general appearance of a globule of mercury , that a difference cannot be detected by the eye .
Its fluidity , however , even at this temperature , is not perfect , and at 50 ?
it becomes a soft solid ; at 40 ?
it is malleable , and has the lustre of polished silver : at about the freezing point of water it is brittle , and when broken , its fragments exhibit a crystalline texture .
When its temperature is , on the contrary , raised to 1000 , its fluidity is perfect ; and when it is heated to a degree approaching to redness , it boils , and after distillation is found in its condensed form unaltered .
Like metals , it is a perfect conductor of electricity ; but when the globule exposed is too small for the quantity of electricity to be transmitted , it is completely dissipated with explosion , accompanied with a vivid white light .
It is also , like most known metals , an excellent conductor of heat , when brought into contact with mercury , &amp;c. When the base of potash is brought into contact with mercury , it instantly amalgamates .
If the globule of mercury be much the larger , the compound appears to be more fluid than mercury ; but when the mercury exceeds in size only in the proportion of 2 to 1 , the compound , though fluid at first from the heat of union , consolidates as it cools , and appears as a soft metal , similar to silver .
The fluid compound unites with all metals that have been exposed to it , acting readily even upon iron and platina .
The base of potash will also combine with other metals without the assistance of mercury , if applied to them in its fluid state ; and it is remarkable , that in most instances the point of fusion of the compound is much higher than could be expected from that of the ingredients .
With sulphur and with phosphorus it also combines , and the compounds agree in appearance with the metallic sulphurets and phosphorets .
But though it resembles the metals in all these properties , it differs from all most remarkably in specific gravity , since it rises to the surface even in doubly-distilled naphtha , of which the specific gravity is only T7- , th of water .
As the quantity which can be obtained is necessarily small , it is difficult to determine any points in which quantities are concerned , with minute precision ; and accordingly the average obtained from several experiments , conducted with great care , and with a very delicate balance , can only be considered as a near approximation to the truth .
By an average of four such trials of its specific gravity , its weight when compared to that of an equal globule of mercury , was as 10 to 223 , which gives its proportion to that of water nearly as 6 to 10 , so that it is the lightest fluid body yet known to chemists .
In consequence of the great affinity of this body for oxygen , it decomposes water instantly , with great heat , accompanied with explosion and a brilliant flame .
By its union with oxygen , potash is formed and is found dissolved in the water ; while hydrogen , in its nascent state , uniting to another portion , becomes spontaneously inflammable at the time of its formation .
The heat during combustion is such , that when a globule of the base of potash was placed upon ice , it burned instantly with a bright flame , and a deep hole was made in the ice , which contained a strong solution of potash .
Such is the attraction of this substance for oxygen , and so great the energy of its action upon water , that it discovers and decomposes the small quantities of water contained in alcohol and ether , even when they are most carefully purified .
The properties of the base of soda are in all respects so analogous to those of the base of potash , that in this abstract it will be sufficient to notice only those circumstances in which they principally differ .
The specific gravity of the base of soda exceeds that of the base of potash ; but it is inferior to that of water in the proportion of 9 to 10 .
Its point of fusion is also so much higher , that at all common temperatures of the atmosphere it appears as a soft and extremely malleable metal ; and it does not fuse till exposed to a heat exceeding 1500 Fahrenheit , and does not become volatile in a heat sufficient to melt plate-glass .
In proportion to the less fusibility of this body , its oxidation is less rapid , and its combustion when heated less vivid than the former .
In the decomposition of water also , which it effects immediately , there is no luminous appearance , although it is accompanied with violent effervescence and a loud hissing noise .
In endeavouring to determine the proportion in which each of these bases unites with oxygen to form potash or soda , Mr. Davy is again necessarily limited in accuracy by want of sufficient quantity of materials for experiment ; but by a comparison of different methods , in each of which the results of several trials were taken , he had reason to be convinced , from their coincidence , that there could be no considerable error .
In his attempt to ascertain this point by direct union , he had various difficulties to overcome from the action of the simple base or of the compound product on the vessel employed , and from the affinity of the alkali for water , which would affect the apparent result .
By an average , however , of six experiments , selected as the most carefully made , and under the most favourable circumstances , he inferred that 100 parts of potash consist of 86 base and 14 oxygen ; t82 and in the same manner , that 100 parts of soda contain 81 base and 19 oxygen .
The other method consisted in collecting the hydrogen evolved from water by a known quantity of each base , and estimating from them the quantity of oxygen absorbed .
The mean of two such experiments on the base of potash , gave the proportion of 15I per cent. oxygen , and the mean of three trials upon soda , showed it to contain 20 per cent. oxygen .
So that the general average of both methods authorizes us to consider potash as containing 15 of oxygen , and soda 20 of oxygen , per cent. Since oxygen had thus been proved to enter into the constitution of the fixed alkalies , Mr. Davy was led to conjecture that it might also form a constituent part of ammonia .
For though the apparent conversion of ammonia into mere nitrogen and hydrogen in the experiments of Scheele and of Priestley , as well as in the more refined and masterly experiments of Berthollet , had left no doubt of its nature on the minds of chemists in general , it was not impossible that a small quantity of water in their results might have been overlooked , when dissolved in the gases or deposited on the vessels employed , or might even be neglected , as not arising from elements essential to the construction of the ammonia .
His conjecture was confirmed in the first place by the formation of carbonic acid in the purest and driest ammoniacal gas , by means of charcoal intensely ignited by a voltaic battery .
When Mr. Davy had afterwards exposed the base of potash to ammoniacal gas , and had ascertained the formation of potash , no doubt was left of the presence of oxygen , although its proportion could not by these means be ascertained .
For the purpose of determining the proportion , and at the same time of avoiding any fallacy that might be occasioned by the presence of water in the ammoniacal gas , even in its state of hygrometrical dryness , Mr. Davy had recourse to the apparatus employed by Messrs. Allen and Pepys for the combustion of the diamond .
The gas , after being carefully prepared and dried , was passed over the surface of iron wire ignited in the platina tube , furnished with an additional apparatus for condensing any water that might be formed in the experiment .
In the course of a quarter of an hour four grains of ammoniacal .
gas were decomposed .
The iron wire had gained -Z- , ths of a grain .
and a quantity of water was moreover collected , which weighed full four tenths of a grain .
From the amount of the oxygen contained in the water , together with that which caused the increase of weight in the iron , Mr. Davy infers that 100 parts of ammonia contain nearly 20 of oxygen .
We may therefore consider oxygen as existing in , and as forming an essential element of all the three alkalies ; so that this principle of acidity , as it is termed in the French nomenclature , might now equally be called the principle of alkalization .
From analogy alone , it is reasonable to presume that the alkaline earths are compounds of a similar nature ; and in some experiments upon both barytes and strontian , inflammable matter was produced at the negative surface , and burned with a red flame .
This matter Mr. Davy has much reason to believe was the basis of the earth employed .
Moreover , although these earths have the strongest relation to the alkalies , there is also a further chain of resemblances through lime , magnesia , glucine , alumine , and silex ; each of which , there is some reason to imagine , may yield new elements when subjected to analysis by electric attraction and repulsion .
Nor , indeed , are our hopes or expectations confined to the decomposition of earthy substances ; as there is equal reason to suppose that the three acids which have hitherto resisted decomposition , by the usual means of chemical analysis , may nevertheless yield the oxygen which they have been presumed to contain when subjected to the more intense action of electro-chemical affinity .

