was poured into a glass containing it , it expanded into a globule of elastic fluid , of an orange colour , which diminished as it passed through the water .
I attempted to collect the products of the explosion of the new substance , by applying the heat of a spirit lamp to a globule of it , confined in a curved glass tube over water : a little gas was at first extricated , but long before the water had attained the temperature of ebullition , a violent flash of light was perceived , with a sharp report ; the tube and glass were broken into small fragments , and I received a severe wound in the transparent cornea of the eye , which has produced a considerable inflammation of the eye , and obliges me to make this communication by an amanuensis .
This experiment proves what extreme caution is necessary in operating on this substance , for the quantity I used was scarcely as large as a grain of mustard seed .
A small globule of it thrown into a glass of olive oil , produced a most violent explosion ; and the glass , though strong , was broken into fragments .
Similar effects were produced by its action on oil of turpentine and naphtha .
When it was thrown into ether there was a very slight action ; gas was disengaged in small quantities , and a substance like wax was formed , which had lost the characteristic properties of the new body .
On alcohol it acted slowly , lost its colour , and became a white oily substance , without explosive powers .
When a particle of it was touched under water by a particle of phosphorus , a brilliant light was perceived under the water , and permanent gas was disengaged , having the characters of azote .
When quantities larger than a grain of mustard seed were used for the contact with phosphorus , the explosion was always $ so violent as to break the vessel in which the experiment was made .
The new body , when acted upon under water by mercury , afforded a substance having the appearance of corrosive sublimate , and gas was disengaged .
On tin foil and zinc it exerted no action ; it had no action on sulphur , nor on resin .
In their alcoholic solutions it disappeared as in pure alcohol .
It detonated most violently when thrown into a solution of phosphorus in ether , or in alcohol .
Phosphorus introduced into ether , into which a globule of the substance had been put immediately before , produced no effect .
In muriatic acid it gave off gas rapidly , and disappeared without explosion .
On dilute sulphuric acid it exerted no violent action .
It immediately disappeared without explosion in LIBAVIUs 's liquor , to which it imparted a yellow tinge .
It seems probable , from the general tenor of these facts , that the new substance is a compound of azote and chlorine ; the same as , or analogous to , that mentioned in the letter from Paris .
It is easy to explain its production in our experiments : the hydrogen of the ammonia may be conceived to combine with one portion of the chlorine to form muriatic acid , and the azote to unite with another portion of chlorine to form the new compound .
The heat and light produced during its expansion into gaseous matter , supposing it to be composed of azote and chlorine , is without any parallel intstance , in our present collection of chemical facts ; the decomposition of euchlorine , which has been compared to it , is merely an expansion of matter already gaseous .
The heat and light produced by its rarefaction , in consequence of decomposition , depend , probably , on the same cause as that which produces the flash of light in the discharge of the air gun .
The mechanical force of this compound in detonation , seems to be superior to that of any other known , not even excepting the ammoniacal fulminating silver .
The velocity of its action appears to be likewise greater .
I am , my dear Sir , with great respect , very sincerely your 's , H. DAVY .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. On a new detonating Compound , in a Letterfrom Sir HUIJMPHRY DAVY , L L. D. F. R.S. to the Right Honourable Sir JOSEPHI BANKS , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read November 5 , 1812 .
MY DEAR SIR , I THINK it right to communicate to you , and through you to the Royal Society , such circumstances as have come to my knowledge respecting a new and a very extraordinary detonating compound .
I am anxious that those circumstances should be made public as speedily as possible , because experiments upon the substance may be connected with very dangerous results ; and because I have already mentioned the mode of preparing it to many of my chemical friends , to whom my experience may be useful in saving them from danger .
About the end of September , I received a letter from a philosophical gentleman at Paris on some subjects of science , which contained the following paragraph : " Vous avez sans doute appris , Monsieur , la decouverte qu'on a faite a Paris il ya pres d'un an , d'une combinaison de gaz azote et de chlorine , qui a l'apparence d'une huile plus MDcccxIII .
B pesante que l'eau , et qui detonne avec tout la violence des m6taux fulminans a la simple chaleur de la main , ce qui a prive d'un ceil et d'un doigt l'auteur de cette decouverte .
Cette ddtonnation a lieu par la simple separation des deux gaz , comme celle de la combinaison d'oxigene et de chlorine ; il ya 6galement beaucoup de lunmiere et de la chaleur produites dans cette d.tonnation , oh un liquid se decompose en deux gaz , " The letter contained no account of the mode of preparation of this substance , nor any other details respecting it .
So curious and important a result could not fail to interest me , particularly as I have long been engaged in experiments on the action of azote and chlorine , without gaining any decided proofs of their power of combining with each other .
I perused with avidity the different French chemical and physical journals , especially Les Annals de Chirnie , and Le yournal de Physique , of which the complete series of last year have arrived in this country , in hopes of discovering some detail respecting the preparation of this substance , but in vain .
I was unable to find any thing relative to it in these publications , or in the Moniteur .
It was evident from the notice , that it could not be formed in any operations in which heat is concerned ; I therefore thought of attempting to combine azote and chlorine under circumstances which I had never tried before , that of presenting them to each other artificially cooled , the azote being in a nascent state .
For this purpose I made a solution of ammonia , cooled it by a mixture of ice and muriate of lime , and slowly passed into it chlorine , cooled by the same means .
There was immediately a violent action , accompanied by fumes of a peculiarly disagreeable smell ; at the same time a yellow substance was seen to form in minute films on the surface of the liquor ; but it was evanescent , and immediately resolved itself into gas .
I was preparing to repeat the experiment , substi .
tuting the prussiate of ammonia and other ammoniacal compounds , in which less heat might be produced by the action of the chlorine , than in the pure solution of the gas , when my friend , Mr. J. G. CHILDREN , put me in mind of a circumstance of which he had written to me an account , in the end of July , which promised to elucidate the enquiry , viz. that Mr. JAMES BURTON , jun .
in exposing chlorine to a solution of nitrate of ammonia , had observed the formation of a yellow oil , which he had not been able to collect so as to examine its properties , as it was rapidly dissipated by exposure to the atmosphere .
Mr. CHILDREN had tried the same experiment with similar results .
I immediately exposed a phial , containing about six cubical inches of chlorine , to a saturated solution of Ilitrate of ammonia , at the temperature of about 50 ?
in common day-light .
A diminution of the gas speedily took place ; in a few minutes a film , which had the appearance of oil , was seen on the surface of the fluid ; by shaking the phial it collected in small globules , and fell to the bottom .
I took out one of the globules , and exposed it in contact with water to a gentle heat : long before the water began to boil , it exploded with a very brilliant light , but without any violence of sound .
I immediately proposed to Mr. CHILDREN , that we should institute a series of experiments upon its preparation and its properties .
We consequently comimence-.d the operations , the resullts of which I shall descrbe .
We were assisted in our B labours , which were carried on in Mr. C-IILDREN'S laboratory at Tunbridge , by Mr. WARBURTON .
It was found that the solution of oxalate of ammonia , or a very weak solution of pure ammonia , answered the purpose as well as the solution of nitrate of ammonia .
It was formed most rapidly in the solution of ammonia , but it was white and clouded ; and though less evanescent than in the strong solution I first used , it was far from being as permanent as in the solutions of nitrate and oxalate .
The solution of prusslate of ammonia acted on by chlorine , afforded none of the peculiar oil ; but produced white fumes , and became of a bright green colour .
An attempt was made to procure the substance in large quantities , by passing chlorine into WOLFE'S bottles , containing the different solutions , but a single trial proved the danger of this mode of operating ; the compound had scarcely began to form , when , by the action of some ammoniacal vapour on chlorine , heat was produced , which occasioned a violent explosion , and the whole apparatus was destroyed .
I shall now describe the properties of the new substance , Its colour is very nearly that of olive oil , and it is as transparent , and more perfectly liquid .
I have not been able to ascertain its specific gravity with accuracy , but it is probably above 1.6 .
Its smell is very nauseous , strongly resembling that of the combination of carbonic oxide and chlorine , discovered by my brother ; and its effect on the eyes is peculiarly pungent and distressing .
A little of it was introduced under water into the receiver of an air pump , and the receiver exhausted ; it became an elastic fluid , and in its gaseous state was rapidly absorbed or decomposed by the water .
When warm water Sir H. DAVY'S Account 4

