The Bakerian Lecture .
On the Relations of Electrical and Chemical Changes .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read June 8 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 383 .
] The author prefaces the experimental results and investigations in this lecture with a brief historical statement of the origin and progress of electro-chemical science , with a view to correct the erroneous statements which have appeared in this country and abroad .
In this the first origin of this branch of knowledge is stated to be the discovery of the decomposition of water by the voltaic pile by Messrs. Nicholson and Carlisle in 1800 .
This was followed by the experiments of Cruickshank and of Dr. Henry , and by several papers by the author himself , the chief contents of which are stated , and in which the appearance of acids , oxygen , and azote at the positive , and of alkalies , sulphur , and metals , at the negative pole , is shown .
The experiments of Hisinger and Berzelius in 1804 are placed next in order , which establish similar results ; and in 1806 , on the occasion of the agitation of the question respecting the formation of muriatic acid and fixed alkali from pure water , the author presented to this Society his Bakerian Lecture on the chemical agencies of electricity , in which he drew the general conclusion , that the combinations and decompositions by electricity were referrible to the law of electrical attractions and repulsions , -a theory in which , he observes , he has hitherto found nothing to alter , and which , after a lapse of twenty years , has continued , as it was in the beginning , the guide and foundation of all his researches .
The instruments used in the experiments of this paper for detecting and estimating electric currents of small intensity , were constructed on the principles of the multiplier of Schweigger , and the galvanometer of Prof. Cumming ; the suspended needle being surrounded , in the direction of its length , with several coils of silked wire , and having its directive force counteracted by two other needles exterior to the coils , being a modification of the method employed for a similar purpose by M. Nobili .
For determining weak electricities of tension , Volta 's condenser , connected with Bennet 's electrometer , was employed ; or with one consisting of a silk filament , rendered conducting by charcoal dust .
Much dependence was , however , never placed on these instruments , unless their indications were otherwise confirmed .
The author now proceeds to the experimental inquiries , which form the chief object of the lecture , and to the general views of electro-chemical agency to which they appear to lead .
First , he considers the electrical and chemical effects exhibited by combinations of one metal and one fluid .
T'he nature of these effects is best explained by an example .
When two pieces of polished copper , each connected with the extremity of the wire of the multiplier , are plunged into a solution of an alkaline hydro-sulphuret , if introduced at the same instant , there is no action ; but if in succession , there is a distinct or even a violent electrical effect , and the piece of metal first introduced is negative with respect to the other .
This effect depends on the formation of a coat of sulphuret of copper on the plate first introduced , which is negative with respect to metallic copper .
Hence the combination is , in strictness , one of these elements , -copper , sulphuret of copper , and the solution .
In like manner , protoxide of copper is negative with respect both to pure copper and to the sulphuret .
Hence , wherever instead of pure copper , tarnished ( i. e. oxidated ) , copper is used in the foregoing experiment , the effect will be precisely the reverse ; and by this many curious anomalies , in this and similar experiments , are explained .
This production of electrical currents by single metals and single fluids occurs generally whenever new products adhering to the metallic surfaces are produced ; and if the same products be applied artificially , the effects are the same as if their adhesion had been caused by the natural action of the fluid on the metal .
The chemical changes produced in the fluid by the ternary combinations thus formed , are in all cases such as tend to restore the deranged equilibrium , hydrogen passing to the negative side , and oxygen to the positive , until the oxides are revived .
We come next to consider the case of two imperfect and one perfect conductor , as two fluids and a metal , or charcoal .
And here the author takes occasion to combat an opinion advanced on high authority * respecting the active development of electricity in the combinations of acids and alkalies , which he refers to the contact of me* That of M ' .
Becquerel .
tals with these agents , to change of temperature , to evaporation , &amp;c. , and never to the mere union of the elements ; and supports his opinion by several experiments .
When platinum is brought in contact with an acid , the pole touching the acid is negative , the opposite pole positive ; and vice versed when it touches an alkali ; and the same is the case with rhodium , iridium , and gold : and the same holds good in all cases , the effect being greater as the action of the acid on the metal is greater .
From this it follows , that when a metal is in contact with an acid or an alkali in one cup , and water or a neutro-saline solution in another , on completing the circuit , the contact of the metal with the acid or alkali will determine the character of the pole in contact with it ; and that in contact with the other fluid will , of course , be of the opposite name , and this result is confirmed by experiment .
In such combinations the chemical changes are such as might be expected , oxygen and acids tending to circulate towards the negative surface , and hydrogen and the alkalies towards the positive .
In combinations consisting of two perfect conductors and one fluid , the order in which the metals exhibit their electricities is connected with their oxidability , the more oxidable metal being positive with respect to all below it .
It is not , however , any inherent quality in the metals which determines this effect , but their fitness for chemical action ; for if the state of aggregation be altered , and the cohesive force , which always acts as antagonist force to chemical changes , be weakened , the positive energy is exalted in proportion : thus the amalgams of the positive metals are positive with respect to the pure metals of which they are amalgams .
In general the electricities developed by metallic contact are too strong to be subverted by an opposite action of the fluids , with which both are in contact .
Such , however , is sometimes the case ; and in all cases the influence of the fluid is perceptible .
An instance is given in the case of zinc and platinum , in contact with each other , and the one immersed in alkali , the other in acid : the energy of electrical action will here be found very much greater when the platinum is plunged into the acid , than in the contrary arrangement .
And in this and similar cases , the general law , that the chemical changes produced are such as tend to restore the equilibrium , holds good .
The author next considers the accumulation of electricity , and the chemical changes it produces in voltaic arrangement .
According to Volta 's view of the action of the pile , the metals were regarded as the only agents , and the chemical changes arising in the fluids as mere results not essential to the development of the electricity .
This view , however , is sufficiently opposed by the inactivity of combinations in which no chemical changes occur , but may be regarded as altogether disproved by an experiment here described , in which , when two glasses filled with solution of nitrate of potash , in which were plunged respectively zinc and platina , connected by the multiplier , were connected by substances capable of conductingi electricity , 284F but not of propagating chemical action , such as unoxidable metals , the circulation of the current was altogether destroyed .
Since the chemical changes always tend to restore the equilibrium destroyed by the contact of the metals in the fluids of a pile , it is evident that the relation between the fluids themselves and the surfaces with which they are in contact , will be altered by a continuance of the action of the pile .
Hence it is easy to perceive the possibility of a re-action taking place , when the circuit is broken , or the disposition of the parts of a pile is changed , or one or more parts of a compound circuit abstracted .
Many curious phenomena , of which hitherto no explanation has been offered , may be explained by this view of the subject ; such as the secondary piles of M. Ritter ; the supposed polarization of electricity concluded by M. De la Rive from his experiments of the interposition of metallic plates in the fluids of a pile ; the continuance of electro-motive action of detached portions of a circuit , after the destruction of the circuit itself , in some experiments , &amp;c. This re-action is illustrated in the paper before us by an experiment , in which a circuit , primarily inactive , consisting of six arcs of platinum in vessels filled with solution of nitre , was made part of a battery , consisting of fifty pairs of plates , of a combination primarily active .
After continuing the circuit some time it was broken , and the platinum arcs detached and formed into a circuit were found to possess independent action , contrary to that of the pile , which had thus rendered them re-active .
This singular consequence is pursued yet further in another experiment here stated , in which detached portions of a battery of fifty plates , which had been some time in action , were examined as separate piles , after breaking up the combination .
When they had been placed conformably in the original battery , their independent action was found to be very much weakened by the re-action thus produced , which in this case opposed their natural effect ; whereas , when unconformably placed in the original battery , their action , when detached , was found exalted to three or four times its natural intensity .
The author next proceeds to point out some general observations and practical applications which suggest themselves on a view of the foregoing results .
The chemical changes in a conducting liquid , he first shows , take place only in the immediate vicinity of the immersed poles , the rest of the liquid affording only a tranquil passage to the electricity .
This leads him to consider the motions produced in mercury when interposed in the circuit under an electrified fluid , which he regards as arising from the two electricities acting as transporters of ponderable matters , which assume their own peculiar characters when they reach their point of rest .
The lecture concludes with some practical suggestions as to the use of the multiplier to obtain exact numerical measures of the electro-dynamic relations of chemical elements , and with some applications of the preceding results to the useful arts , especially in the preservation of the copper on ships , and the iron boilers of steam-engines .

