cases in which I burnt potassium or sodium in common air ; applying only a gentle heat , I found that the first products were substances extremely fusible , and of a reddish brown colour , which copiously effervesced in water , and which became dry alkali , by being strongly heated upon platina in the air , phenomena , which , at an early period of the enquiry , induced me to suppose that they were prot-oxides of potassium and sodium .
Finding , in subsequent experiments , however , that they deflagrated with iron filings , and rapidly oxidated platina and silver , I suspended my opinion on the subject , intending to investigate their nature more fully .
Since that time , these oxides , as I finld by a notice in the Moniteur for July 5th , 181o , have occupied the attention of M. M. GAY LUSSAC and THENARD , and these able chemists have discovered that they are peroxides of potassium and sodium , the one containing , according to them , three times as much oxygene as potash , and the other 1.5 , times as much as soda I have been able to confirm in a general way these interesting results , though I have not found any means of ascertaining accurately , the quantity of oxygene contained in these new oxides .
When they are formed upon metallic substances , there is always a considerable oxidation of the metal , even though platina be employed .
I have used a platina tray lined with muriate of potash , that had been fused ; but in this case , though I am inclined to believe that some alkali *was formed at the same time with the peroxides,.yet I obtained an absorpton of 2.6 cubical inches , in a case when o grains of potassium were employed , and of 1.63 cubical incihes , in a case when a grain of sodium was used , but in this last instanrce , the edge of the platina tray had been acted upon by the m-etal , t 4 and was oxidated.* The mercury in the barometer in these experiments stood at 30.12 inches , and that in the thermometer at 62 ?
FAHRENHEIT .
When these peroxides were formed upon muriate of potash , the colour of that from potassium was of a bright orange ; that from sodium of a darker orange tint .
They gave off oxy .
gene , as M. M. GAY LUSSAc and THENARD state , by the action of water or acids .
They were converted into alkali , as the French chemists have stated , by being heated with any metallic or inflammable matter .
They thickened fixed oils , forming a compound that did not redden paper tinged with turmeric , without the addition of water .
When potassium is brought in contact with fused nitre , in tubes of pure glass , there is a slight scintillation only , and the nitre becomes of a red brown colour .
In this operation , nitrogene is produced , and the oxide of potassium formed .
I thought that by ascertaining the quantity of nitrogene evolved by the action of a given weight of potassium , and comparing this with the quantity of oxygene disengaged from the oxide by water , I might be able to determine its composition accurately .
A grain of potassium acting in this way , I found produced only -.60 of nitrogene ; and the red oxide by its action upon water , produced less than half a cubical inch of oxygene , so that it is probable that potash as well as its peroxide is formed in the operation .
Sodium , when brought in contact with fused nitre , produced a violent deflagration .
In two experiments in which I used a grain of the metal , the tube broke with the violence of the explosion .
I succeeded in obtaining the solid results of the deflagration of a grain of sodium , but it appeared that no peroxide had formed , for the mass gave no oxygene by the action of water .
When potassium is burnt in a retort of pure glass , the result is partly potash and partly peroxide , and by a long continued red heat the peroxide is entirely decomposed .
A grain of potassium was gently heated in a small green glass retort containing oxygene ; it burnt slowly , and with a feeble flame ; a quantity of oxygene was absorbed equal to o90 of a cubical inch ; by heating the retort to dull redness , oxygene was expelled equal to -3LJ of a cubical inch ; the mercury in the thermometer in this experiment stood at 63 ?
FAHREnHEIT , and that in the barometer at 30.1 inches .
In experiments on the electrical decomposition of potash and soda , when the VOLTAIC battery employed contains from 5oo to looo series in full action ; the metals burn at the moment of their production , and form the peroxides ; and it is probable , from the observations of M. RITTER , that these bodies may be produced likewise in VOLTAIC operations on potash , at the positive surface .
In my early experiments on potassium and sodium , I regarded the fusible substances appearing at the negative surface , in the VOLTAIC circuit , as well as those produced by the exposure of the metals to heat and air , as prot-oxides , and as similar to the results obtained by heating the metals in contact with small quantities of alkali .
6 I have repeated these last operations , in which I conceived that prot-oxides were formed .
Potassium and sodium , when heated in glass tubes in contact with about half of their weight of potash and soda , that have been ignited , become first of a bright azure , then produce a considerable quantity of hydrogene , and at last form a gray coherent mass , not fusible at a dull red heat , and which gives hydrogene by the action of water .
Whether these are true prot-oxides , or merely mixtures of the alkaline metals with the alkalies , or with the alkalies and reduced silex from the glass , I shall not at present attempt to decide .
Potassium I find heated in a similar manner with fuised potash , in a tube of platina , gives after having been ignited , a dark mass that effervesces with water ; but even in this case , it may be said that the alloy of platina and potassium interferes , and that th6 substance is not a protoxide , but merely dry alkali : mixed with this alloy .
As the pure alkalies were unknown , till the discovery of potassium and sodium , * and as their properties have never been described , it will perhaps be proper in this place to notice them briefly .
STAr : L approached nearly to the discovery of the pure alkalies .
Hte cemented solid caustic potash with iron filings in a long continued heat , and states , that in this way an alkali " c valde causticum " is produced .
Specim .
Becb .
part ii .
page 255 .
He procured caustic alkali also , by decomposing nitre by the metals .
Id. p. 253 , I find that when nitre is decomposed in a crucible of platina , by a strong red heat , a yellow substance remains , which consists of potash and oxide of platina , apparently n chemical combination .
The undecompounded potash which comes over in the process for proc:uring potassium by the gun-barrel , is of an olive colour , and affords oxide of iron du rinPgi its solution in water , Pure potash will probably befound to have an affinity for many metallic oxides ; When potassium and sodium are burnt in oxygene gas upon platina , and heated to redness to decompose the peroxide of potassium , the alkalies are of a grayish green colour .
They are harder than common potash or soda , and , as well as I could determine by an imperfect trial , of greater specific gravity .
They require a strong red heat for their perfect fluidity , and evaporate slowly , by a still further increase of temperature .
When small quantities of water are added to them , they heat violently , become white , and are converted into hydrats , and then are easily fusible and volatile .
When potassium or sodium is burnt on glass , freed from metallic oxides , and strongly heated , or when potash or soda is formed from the metals by the action of a minute quantity of water , their colour approaches to white ; but in other sensible properties , they resemble the alkalies formed upon metallic substances ; and are distinguished in a marked manner by their difficult fusibility from the potash and soda prepared by alcohol .
M. D'ARCET , and more distinctly M. BERTHOLLET , have concluded that the loss of weight of common fused potash and soda , during their combination with acids , depends upon the expulsion of water , which M. BERTHOLLET has rated at 13.9 per cent. for potash , and M. D'ARcET , at 27 or 28 for potash , and 28 or 29 for soda.* I have stated in the last Bakerian Lecture , that my own results led me to conclude , that fused potash contained about 16 or 17 parts in the ioo of water , taking the potash formed , by adding oxygene to potassium as a standard .
The experiment from which I drew my conclusions , was made on the action of silex and potash fused together , and I regarded the loss of weight , as the indication of the quantity of moisture .
I am acquainted with no experiment on record , in which water has been actually collected from the ignited fixed alkalies , and this appeared necessary for the complete elucidation of the subject .
I heated together in a green glass retort , 40 grains of potash , ( that had been ignited for several minutes ) , and loo grains of boracic acid , which had been heated to whiteness for nearly an hour .
The retort was carefully weighed , and connected with a small receiver , which was likewise weighed ; the bulb of the retort was then gradually heated till it became of a cherry red ; there was a violent effervescence in the retort , a fluid condensed in the neck , and passed into the receiver .
When the process was completed , the whole of the retort was strongly heated ; it was found to have lost 6 grains , and the receiver had gained 5.8 grains .
The fluid that it contained was water , holding in solution a minute quantity of boracic acid , and when evaporated , it did not leave an appreciable quantity of residuum .
A similar experiment made upon soda , heated to redness , but in which the water collected was not weighed , indicated 22.9 of water in loo parts of soda .
It may be asked , whether part of the water evolved in these processes might not have been produced from the boracic acid , or formed in consequence of its agency ; but the following experiments show that this can not be the case in any sensible degree .
I heated 8 grains of potassium , with about 5o grains of boracic acid , to redness in a tube of platina , connected with a glass tube , kept very cool ; but I found that no moisture whatever was separated in the process .
I mixed a few grains of potassium with red oxide of mercury , and ignited the mixture in contact with boracic acid , but no elastic product , except mercury , was evolved .
I made some potash by the combustion of potassium in a glass tube , and ignition of the peroxide , I added to it dry boracic acid , and heated the mixture to redness .
Sub-borate of potash was formed , and there was not the slightest indications of the presence of moisture.* It is evident from this chain of facts , that common potash and soda are hydrats , and the bodies formed by the combustion of the alkaline metals , are , as I have always stated , pure metallic oxides , ( as far as our knowledge extends ) free from water.* vescence took place , and after intense ignition for a few minutes , there was an additional loss of weight of four grains and a half .
The energy with which water adheres to certain bodies in other cases , is shown by the experiments of M. BERTHOLLET , Mem. d'Arcueil , tom .
ii .
page 47 .
Indeed it is impossible to say that a neutral compound , or a fixed acid is ever entirely free from water ; it is only the first proportions that are easily separated .
If the proportions of water in common potash and soda were to be judged of from their loss of weight , in combining with boracic acid , it would appear to be from 19 to so per cent. in the first , and from 23 to 25 in the second .
I shall now resume the detail of the experiments that I have made , on the relative attractions of oxymuriatic gas and oxygene , for the metals of the fixed alkalies .
I burnt a grain of potassium in oxygene gas , in a retort of green glass , furnished with a stop-cock , and heated the oxide formed , to redness , to convert it into potash : half a cubical inch of oxygene was absorbed .
The retort was exhausted , and very pure oxymuriatic gas admitted .
The power , and in these instances procuring the metals in very small quantities only , I perceived no effervescence .
When from five hundred to one thousand plates are used for producing potassium , there is a violent effervescence , and a production of hydrogene and sometimes of potassuretted hydrogene , connected with the formation of the metal .
Potassium , brought in contact with red hot hydrat of potash , disengages abundance of hydrogene , and the whole is converted into difficultly fusible potash .
327 grains of hydrat of potash that had been ignited , were made to act in a gunbarrel on 745 grains of iron turnings heated to whiteness .
Some hydrogene was lost , and some hydrat of potash remained undecompounded , yet 225 cubical inches of inflammable gas were collected , and 50 grains of potassium , and a large quantity of an alloy of potassium and iron formed , so that it is scarcely possible to doubt that all the hydrogene produced from the decomposed hydrat of potash was liberated .
Mr. DALTON conceives that there is an analogy between potassium and sodium , .
and the compounds of hydrogene with sulphur , phosphorus , and arsenic ; but I am at loss to trace any similarity between sulphureted hydrogene , which is a gaseous body , soluble in water , and having acid properties , and a highly inflammable solid metal which produces alkali by combustion .
Potassium might as well be compared to carbonic acid .
Mr. DALTON considers the volatility of potassium and sodium as favouring the idea of their containing hydrogene ; but they are less volatile than antimony , arsenic , and tellurium , and much less volatile than mercury .
He mentions their low specific gravity as a circumstance favourable to this idea .
I have on a former occasion examined this argument , first brought forward by M. RITTER ; ; but it may not be amiss to add , that if potassium is a compound of hydrogene and potash , hydrat of potash must contain an equal quantity of hydrogene , with the addition of a light gaseous element , oxygene , which might be expected to diminish rather than to increase the specific gravity of the compound .
Mr. DA LTON states , p. 488 , that potassium forms dry hydrat of potash , by decomposing nitrous gas colour of the potash instantly became white , and by a gentle heat , the whole was converted into muriate of potash : a cubical inch and -8 of oxymuriatic gas were absorbed , and exactly ' half a cubical inch of oxygene generated .
The barometer during this 'operation was at 0o.3 , the thermometer at 6(2 FAHRENHEIT .
I made several experiments of the same kind , but this is the only one on which I can place entire dependence .
When I attempted to use larger quantities of potassium , the retort usually broke during the cooling of the glass , and it was not possible to gain any accurate results in employing metallic trays .
The potassium was spread into a thin plate , and of course was much oxidatedbefore its admission ' into the .
retort , which rendered the absorption of oxygene a &gt; little less than it ought to have been .
In ' the process it was heated in vacuo before the combustion , to decompose the water in the crust of potash ; for in cases when this precaution , was not taken , I found that hydrat of potash sublimed , and lined the upper part of the retort , and from .
this the oxymuriatic gas separated water as well as oxygene .
The phenomenon of the separation of water from hydrat of potash by oxymuriatic gas , was happily exemplified in an experiment in which I introduced oxymuriatic gas to the peroxide of potassiumn , formed in a large retort , and in which and nitrous oxide ; this is not the case : and he does not refer to experiment .
I find by some very careful trials , that potassium attracts the oxygene and some of the nitrogene from these bodies , and forms a fusible compound which may be decomposed , giving off nitrogene and its excess of oxygene , by a red heat , and which becomes potash , and not dry hydrat of potash .
M. M. GAY LUSSAC and TraNARD have convinced themselves that potassium and sodium are not hydrurets of potash and soda , by a method similar to that which I adopted and published some months before , namely , by producing neutral salts from them .
3S ; the potassium had been covered with a considerable crust of hydrat of potash .
The upper part of the retort and its neck contained a white sublimate of hydrat , which had risen in conbustion , and which was perfectly opaque .
As soon as the gas was admitted it instantly became transparent from the evolution of water ; and on heating the glass in eotntact with the sublimate , its opacity was restored , and water driven off .
In various cases in which I heated dry potash , or mixtures of potash and the peroxide , in oxymuriatic gas , there was no separation of moisture , except when the gas contained aqueous vapour ; and the oxygene evolved in the process , when the heat was strongly raised , exactly corresponded to that absorbed by thepotassium .
When muriatic acid gas was introduced to potash formed from the combustion of potassium , water was instantly formed , and oxymuriate of potassium.* I have made no accurate experiment on the proportions of muriatic acid gas decomposed by potash , but I made a very minute investigation , of the nature of the mutual decomposition of this substance , and hydrat of potash .
Ten grains of hydrat of potash were heated to redness in a tray of platina , which was carefully weighed ; it was introduced into a retort which was exhausted of air , and the retort was filled with muriatic acid gas .
The hydrat of potash was heated by a spirit lamp , water instantly separated in great abundance , and muriate of potash formed .
A strong heat was applied till the process was completed , when the tray was taken out and weighed ; it had gained A2 , grains .
A minute quantity of liquid muriatic acid was added to the muriate , to ensure a complete neutralization , and the tray heated to redness : there was no additional increase of weight .
In the few experiments which I have made on the action of sodium and soda on oxymuriatic gas , the phenomena appeared precisely analogous ; but sodium , as might have been ex pected , absorbed nearly twice as much oxymuriatic gas as potassium .
When common salt that has been ignited , is heated with , potassium , there is an immediate decomposition , and by giving the mixture a red heat , pure sodium is obtained ; and this process affords an easy mode , and the one I have always lately adopted for procurin ' that metal .
No hydrogene is ?
disengaged in this operation , and two parts of potassium I find produces rather more than one of sodium .
From the series of proportions that I have communicated in my last paper , it is evident that t grain of potassium ought to absorb 1.oS cubical inches of oxymuriatic acid ; and that the potash formed from one grain of potassium ought to decompose about , i 6 cubical inches of muriatic acid gas ; and these estimations agree very nearly with the result of experiments .
The estimation of the composition of soda , as deduced from the experiments in the last Bakerian lecture , is 25.4 of oxygene to 74.6 of metal , and this would give the number representing the proportion in which sodium combines with bodies 2 .
; * from which it is evident , that a grain of sodiut Mr. DAVY 's Experinents on the ought to absorb nearly 2 cubical inches of oxymuriatic gas , and that the same quantity converted into soda , would decompose nearly four cubical inches of muriatic gas .
Muriate of soda ought on tltis idea to contain one prolportion of sodium , 22 .
, and one of oxymuriatic gas 3.9 ; and this estimation is very near that which may be gained from Dr. MARCET'S analysis of this substance .
Hydrat of potash ought to consist of i proportion of potash , represented by 48 .
, and one of water , represented by 8.5 .
This gives its composition as 1i.1 of water , and 84.9 of potash .
Hydrat of soda ought , according to theory , to contain i proportion of soda 29.5 , and 1 of water 8.5 , which will give in loo parts e2.4 of water ; and the experiments that I have detailed , conform as well as can be expected with these conclusions .
The proportions of potash and soda indicated , in different neutral combinations , by these estimations , will be found to agree very nearly with those derived from the most accurate analysis , particularly those of M. BERTHOLLET ; or the differences are such as admit of an easy explanation .
I stated in my last commrunication , the probability that the oxygene in the hyperoxymuriate of potash was in triple com'bination with the metal and oxymuriatic gas ; the new facts that water consists of I particle of oxygene , and i of hydrogene ; but I have since found that this opinion is advanced , in a work published in 1789 .
A comparative View of the Phlogistic and Antiphlogistic Theories , by WILLIAM HIIGGINS .
In this elaborate and ingenious performance , Mr. HIGGINS has developed many happy sketches of the manner in which ( on the corpuscular hypothesis ) the particles or molecules of bodies may be conceived to combine ; and some of his views , though formed at this early period of investigation , appear to me to be more defensible , as .
suming his data , than any which have been since advanced ; for instance , he considered nitrous gas as composed of two particles of oxygene , and one of nitrogene .
Mr. HHIG C NS had likewise drawn the just conclusion respecting the constitution of 16 respecting the peroxide confirm this idea , Potassium , perfectly saturated with oxygene , would probably contain six sulphuretted hydrogene , from its electrical decomposition .
As hydrogene is the substance which combines with other bodies in the smallest quantity , it is perhaps the most fitted to be represented by unity ; and on this idea the proportions in ammonia will be 3 of hydrogene to I of nitrogene , and the number representing the smallest proportion in which nitrogene is known to combine will be 1 3.4 .
Mr. DALTON , New System of Chemical Philosophy , pages 323 and 436 , has adopted 4.7 or 5.i , as the number representing the weight of the atom of nitrogene ; and has quoted my experiments , Researches , Chemical and Philosophical , as authorising these numbers ; but all the enquiries on nitric acid , nitrous gas , nitrous oxide , and on the decomposition of nitrat of ammonia stated in that work , conform much more nearly to the number I3.4 .
According to Mr. DALTON , nitrat of ammonia contains one proportion of acid and one of alkali , and nitrate of potash two proportions of acid and one of alkali ; but it is easy to see that the reverse must be the case .
Nitrate of ammonia is known to be an acid salt ; and nitrate of potash a neutral salt ; which harmonizes with the views above stated .
Mr. DALTON estimates the quantity of water in nitric acid of specific gravity 1.54 , at 27.5 per cent. ; and this , according to him , is a stronger acid than he obtained by decomposing fused nitre by sulphuric acid , which contained only 19 per cent. of water , and one quantity of sulphuric acid , according to him , will produce from nitre , more than an equal weight of nitric acid , and he supposes no water in nitre ; so that his conclusion as to the quantity of water in liquid nitric acid on his own data must be incorrect , I find water in fused nitre , by decomposing it by boracic acid .
I shall enter no further at present into an examination of the opinions , results , and conclusions of my learned friend ; I am however obliged to dissent from most of them , and to protest against the interpretations that he has been pleased to make of my experiments ; and I trust to his judgment and candour for a correction of his views .
It is impossible not to admire the ingenuity and talent with which Mr. DALTON has arranged , combined , weighed , measured , and figured his atoms ; but it is not , I cone ceive , on any speculations upon the ultimate particles of matter , that the true theory of definite proportions must ultimately rest .
It has a surer basis in the mutual decomposition of the neutral salts , observed by RICHT are and GuYTON DE MQRVEAU , in the mutual decompositions of the compounds of hydrogene and nitrogene , of nitrogene and oxygene , of water and the oxymuriatic compounds ; in the multiples of oxygene in the nitrous compounds ; and those of acids in salts , observed by Drs. WoLLASTO N proportions ; for , according to Mr. CHENEVIX'S analysis , which is confirmed by one made in the Laboratory of the Royal Institution , by Mr. E. DAVY , hyperoxymuriate of potash must consist of 40.5 potassium , 32.9 oxymuriatic gas , and 45 of oxygene .
I have mentioned , that by strongly heating the peroxide of potassium in oxymuriatic acid , all the oxygene is expelled , and a mere combination of oxymuriatic gas and potassium formed .
I thought it possible , that at a low temperature , a combination might be eficted , and I have reason to believe that this is the case .
I made a peroxide of potassium , by heating potassium with about twice the quantity of nitre , and admitted oxymuriatic gas which was absorbed : some oxygene was expelled on the fusion of the peroxide , but a salt remaiuied , which gave oxymuriatic gas , as well as muriatic acid , by the action of sulphuric acid .
It seems evident , that in the formation of the lIyperoxymuriate of potash , one quantity of potash is decomposed by the attraction of oxymuriatic gas to form muriate of potash ; but the oxygene , instead of being set free in the nascent state , enters into cornmbnation with another portion of potash , to form a peroxide , and with oxymuriatic gas .
The proportions required for these changes may be easily deduced from the data which have been stated in the preceding pages .
proportions of potash , equal to 240 grains , must be decomposed to form with an equal number of proportions and THoMson , ; and above all , in the decompositions by the VOLTAIC apparatus .
Where oxygene and hydrogeine , oxygene and inflammable bodies , acids and alkalies , &amp; t. must separate ia unifori ratios .
i8 of oxymuriatic gas equal to 164.5 grains , 5 proportions of muriate of potash equal to 367 grains ; and 5 of oxygene equal to 37 , 5 grains , combined with one of potash , equal to 48 , must unite in triple union with one of oxymuriatic gas equal to 3e.9 , to form one proportion , equal to 118.4 grains of hyperoxymuriate of potash .
3 .
On the Combinations of the Metals of the Earths , with Oxygene and Oxymuriatic Gas .
The muriates of baryta , lime , and strontia , after being a long time in a white heat , are not decomposable by any simple attractions : thus , they are not altered by dry boracic acid , though , when water is added to them , they readily afford muriatic acid and their peculiar earths .
From this circumstance , I was induced to believe that these three compounds consist merely of the peculiar metallic bases , which I have named barium , strontium , and calcium , and oxymuriatic gas ; and such experiments as I have been able to make , confirm the conclusion .
When baryta , strontia , or lime , is heated in oxymuriatic gas to redness , a body precisely the same as a dry muriate is formed , and oxygene is expelled from the earth .
I have never been able to effect so complete a decomposition of these earths by oxymuriatic gas , as to ascertain the quantity of oxygene produced from a given quantity of earth .
But in three experiments made with great care I found that one of oxygene was evolved for every two in volume of oxymuriatic gas absorbed .
I have not yet tried the experiment of acting upon oxymuriatic gas by the bases of the alkaline earths ; but I have D2 19 not the least doubt that these bodies would combine directly with that substance , and form dry muriates .
In the last experiments that I made on the metallization of the earths by amalgamation , I paid particular attention to the state of the products formed , by exposing the residuum of amalgams to the air .
I found that baryta formed in this way was not fusible at an intense white heat , and that strontia and lime so formed gave off no water when ignited .
Baryta made from chrystals of the earth , as M. BERTHOLLET has shown , is a fusible hydrat , and I found that this earth gave moisture when decomposed by oxymuriatic gas ; and the lime , in hydrat of lime , was much more rapidly decomposed by oxymuriatic gas than quicklime , its oxygene being rapidly expelled with the water .
Some dry quicklime was heated in a retort , filled with muriatic acid gas ; water was instantly formed in great abundance , and it can hardly be doubted , that this arose from the hydrogene of the acid.combining with the oxygene of the lime .
As potassium so readily decomposes common salt , I thought it might possibly decompose muriate of lime , and thus afford easy means of procuring calcium .
The rapidity with which muriate of lime absorbs water , and the difficulty of freeing it even by a white heat from the last portions , rendered the circumstances of the experiments unfavourable .
I found , however , that by heating potassium strongly , in contact with the salt , in a retort of difficultly fusible glass , I obtained a dark coloured matter , diffised through a vitreous mass , which effervesced strongly with water .
The potassium had all disappeared , and the retort had received a heat at which potassium s entirely volatilizes .
I had similar results with muriate of strontia , and ( though less distinct , more potassium distilling off unaltered ) with muriate of baryta .
Either the bases of the earths were wholly or partially deprived of oxymuriatic gas in these processes , or the potassium had entered into triple combination with the muriates .
I hope on a future occasion to be able to decide this point .
Combinations of muriatic acid gas with magnesia , alumine and silex , are all decomposed by heat , the acid being driven off , and the earth remaining free .
I conjectured from this circumstance , that oxymuriatic gas would not expel oxygene from these earths , and the suspicion was confirmed by experiments .
I heated magnesia , alumine , and silex to redness in oxymuriatic gas , but no change took place , M. M. GAY LussAc and THENARD have shown that baryta is capable of absorbing oxygene ; and it seems likely , ( as according to Mr. CHENEVIX'S experiments , most of the earths are capable of becoming hyperoxymuriates ) that peroxides of their bases must exist .
I endeavoured to combine lime with more oxygene , by heating it in hyperoxymuriate of potash , but without success , at least after this process it gave off no oxygene in combining with water .
The salt , called oxymuriate of lime , made for the use of the bleachers , I found gave off oxygene by heat , and formed muriate of lime .
From the proportions which I have given in the last Bakerian lecture , but which were calculated from the analyses of sulphates , it follows that if the muriates of baryta , strontia , and lime , be regarded as containing one proportion of oxymuriatic gas , and one of metal , then they would consist of 71 " barium , 46 strontium , and 2l calcium , to 32.9 of oxymuriatic gas .
To determine how far these numbers are accurate , 50 grains of each of these muriates that had been heated to whiteness were decomposed by nitrate of silver , the precipitate was collected , washed , heated , and weighed .
The muriate of baryta , treated in this way , afforded 68 grains of horn-silver .
The muriate of strontia 85 grains .
The muriate of lime 125 grains .
From experiments to be detailed in the next section , it appears that horn-silver consists of io of silver to 3.9 of oxynuriatic gas , and consequently that barium should be represented by 65.1 , strontiun by 46.1 , and calcium by 2o.8 .
4 .
On the Combinations of the Common Metals , with Oxygene and Oxymuriatic Gas .
In the limits which it is usual to adopt in this lecture , it will not be possible for me to give more than an outline of the numerous experimenits that I have made on the combinations of oxymunriatic gas with metals ; I must confine myself to a general statement of the mode of operating , and the results .
I used in all.cases small retorts of green glass , containing from 3 to 6 cubical inches , furnished with stopcocks .
The netallic substances were introduced , the retort exhausted and filled with the gas to be acted upon , heat was applied by * If Mr JAM s THoMPSON 's analysis of sulphate of barytes be made the basis of calculation , sulphuric acid being estimated as 36 , then the number representing barium will be about 65.5 , E means of a spirit lamp , and after cooling , the results were examined , and the residual gas analysed .
All the metals that I tried , except silver , lead , nickel , cobalt , and gold , when heated , burnt in the oxymuriatic gas , and the volatile metals with flame .
Arsenic , antimony , tellurium and zinc with a white flame , mercury with a red flame .
Tin be- .
came ignited to whiteness , and iron and copper to redness ; tungsten and manganese to dull redness ; platina was scarcely acted upon at the heat of fusion of the glass .
The product from arsenic was butter of arsenic ; a dense , limpid , highly volatile fluid , a non-conductor of electricity , and of high specific gravity , and which when decomposed by water , gave oxide of arsenic and muriatic acid .
That from antimony , was butter of antimony , an easily fusible and volatile solid , of the colour of horn-silver , of great density , crystallizing on cooling in hexahedral plates , and giving , by its decomposition by water , white oxide .
The product from tellurium , in its sensible qualities , resembled that from antimony , and gave when acted ori by water white oxide .
The product from mercury was corrosive sublimate .
That from zinc was similar in colour to that from antimony , but was much less volatile .
The combination of oxymuriatic gas and iron , was of a bright brown ; but having a lustre approaching to the metallic , and was iridescent like the Elba iron ore .
It volatilized at a moderate heat , filling the vessel with beautiful minute crystals of extraordinary splendour , and collecting in brilliant plates , the form of which I could not determine .
When acted on by water , it gave red muriate of iron , Copper formed a bright red brown substance , fusible at a heat below redness , and becoming crystalline and semi-transparent on cooling , and which gave a green fluid , and a green precipitate by the action of water .
" The substance from manganese was not volatile at a dull red heat ; it was of a deep brown colour , and by the action of water became of a brighter brown : a muriate of manganese , which did not redden litmus remained in solution ; and an insoluble matter remained of a chocolate colour.t Tungsten afforded a deep orange sublimate , which , when decomposedby water , afforded muriatic acid , and the yellow oxide of tungster .
Tin afforded LIBAVIUs 's liquor , which gave a muriate by the action of water containing the oxide of tin , at the maximum of oxidation .
Silver and lead produced horn-silver and horn-lead , and bismuth , butter of bismuth .
The absorption of oxymuriatic gas was in the following proportions for two grains of each of the metals : for arsenic 3.6 cubical inches , for antimony * It is worth enquiry , whether the precipitate from oxymuriate of copper by water is not a hydrated submuriate , analogous in its composition to the crystalized muriate of Peru .
This last I find affords muriatic acid and water by heat .
The resin of copper discovered by BOYLE , formed by heating copper with corro .
sive sublimate , probably contains only i proportion of oxymuriatic gas , whilst that above referred to must contain z. When muriate of manganese is made by solution of its oxide in muriatic acid , a neutral combination is obtained , but this is decomposed by heat ; muriatic gas flies off , and brown oxide of manganese remains .
In this respect manganese appears as a link between the ancient metals and the newly discovered ones .
Its muriate is decomposed like that of magnesia ; and its oxide is the only one amongst those long known , as far as my experiments have gone , which neutralizes the acid energy of muriatic acid gas , so as to prevent it in solution from affecting vegetable blues .
9-4 g.1 , for tellurium.4 , for mercury 1.o5 , * for zinc 3.2 , for iron 5.8 , for tin 4 , for bismuth 1.5 , for copper 3.4 , for lead.9 , for silver , the absorption of volume was -9A , and the increase of weight of the silver was equivalent to 6 of a grain.t In acting upon metallic oxides by oxymuriatic gas , I found that those of lead , silver , tin , copper , antimony , bismuth , and tellurium , were decomposed in a heat below redness , but the oxides of the volatile metals , more readily than those of the fixed ones .
The oxides of cobalt and nickel were scarcely acted upon at a dull red heat .
The red oxide of iron was not affected at a strong red heat , whilst the black oxide was rapidly decomposed at a much lower temperature ; arsenical acid underwent no change at the greatest heat that could be given it in the glass retort , whilst the white oxide readily decomposed .
In cases where oxygene was given off , it was found exactly the same in quantity as that which had been absorbed by the metal .
Thus 2 grains of red oxide of mercury absorbed -b of a cubical inch of oxymuriatic gas , nd afforded 0.45 of oxygene.t Two grains of dark olive oxide from calomel decom* The gas in these experiments was not freed from aqueous vapour , and as stopcocks of brass were used , a little gas might have been absorbed by the surface of this metal , so that the processes offer only approximations to the composition of the oxymuriates .
The processes on lead , tellurium , iron , antimony , copper , tin , mercury , and arselic , were carried on in three successive days , during which the height of the mercury in the barometer varied from 30.26 inches to 30.15 , and the height of that in the thermometer from 63.5 to 61 FAHRENHEIEt .
The experiment on silver was made at the temperature of 52 FAHRENHB IT , and under a pressure equal to that of 29.9 inches .
t This agrees nearly with another experiment made by my brother , Mr. JoHx DAVY , in which z2 grains of silver increased to 15.9 during their conversion into horn-silver .
I have made two analyses of corrosive sublimate and calomel , with considerable posed by potash , absorbed about I9 of xymuriatic gas , and afforded 7-j of oxygene , and corrosive sublimate was produced in both cases .
In the decomposition of the white= oxide of zinc , oxygene was expelled exactly equal to half the volume of the oxymuriatic acid absorbed .
In the case of the decomposition of the black oxide of iron , and the white oxide of arsenic , the changes that occurred were of a very beautiful kind ; no oxygene was given off in either case , but butter of arsenic , and arsenical acid formed in one instance , and the ferruginous sublimate , and red oxide of iron in the other .
care .
I decomposed Ioo grains of corrosive sublimate , by go grains of hydrat of potash .
This afforded 79.5 grains of orange coloured oxide of inercury , 40 grains of which afforded 9.1 5 cubical inches of oxygene gas ; the muriate of silver formed from the ioo grains was 1oza .
, ioo grains of calomel , decomposed by 90 grains of potash , afforded 8z grains of olive coloured oxide of mercury , of which 40 grains gave by decomposition by heat 4+8 cubical inches of oxygene .
The quantity of horn-silver formed from the Ioo grains was 58.75 grains .
In the second analysis , the quantity of oxide obtained from corrosive sublimate was 78.7 ; the quantity of muriate of silver formed was 103,4 ; the oxide produced from calomel weighed 83 grains the hlorn-silver formed was 57g grains .
I am inclined to put most confidence in the last analyses ; but the tenor of both is to show that the quan .
tity of oxymuriatic gas in corrosive sublimate , is exactly double that in calotel , and that the orange oxide contains twice as much oxygene as the black , the mercury being considered as the same in all .
The olive colour of the oxide foried frofim calomel , is owing to a slight admaixture of orange oxide , formed by the oxygene of the water used in precipitation ; the tint I find is almost black , when a boiling solution of potash is used ; and trituration , with a little orange oxide brings the tint to olive .
It has been stated , that the olive oxide thrown down from calomel by potash is a submuriate ; but I have never been able to find a vestige of muriatic acid in it when well washed .
It is not easy to obtain perfect precision in analyses of the oxides of mercury ; water adheres to the oxides , which cannot be entirely driven off without the expulsion of some oxygene .
In all my experiments , though the oxides had been heated to a temperature above 212 , a little dew collected in the neck of the retort , so that the 40 grains must have been over-rated .
Two grains of white oxide of arsenic absorbed o.8 of oxymuriatic gas.* I doubt not that the same phenomena will be found to occur in other instances , in which the metal has comparatively a slight attraction only for oxymuriatic gas , and when it is susceptible of different degrees of oxydation , and in which the peroxide is used .
The only instance in which I tried to decompose a common metallic oxide , by muriatic acid , was in that of the fawn coloured oxide of tin ; water rapidly separated , and LIBAVIUS 's liquor was formed .
From the proportions which may be gained in considering the volumes of oxymuriatic gas absorbed by the different metals , in their relations to the quantity of oxygene which would be required to convert them into oxides , it would appear , that in the experiments to which I have referred , either one , two , or three proportions of oxymuriatic gas combine with one of metal , and consequently , from the composition of the muriates , it will be easy to obtain the numbers representing the proportions in which these metals may be conceived to enter into other compounds.t 5 .
General Conclusions and Observations , illustrated by Experiments .
All the conclusions which I ventured to draw in my last communication to the Society , will , I trust , be found to be confirmed by the whole series of these new enquiries .
Oxymuriatic gas combines with inflammable bodies , to form simple binary compounds ; and in these cases , when it acts upon oxides , it either produces the expulsion of their oxygene , or causes it to enter into new combinations .
If it be said that the oxygene arises from the decomposition of the oxymuriatic gas , and not from the oxides , it may be asked , why it is always the quantity contained in the oxide ; and why in some cases , as those of the peroxides of potassium and sodium , it bears no relation to the quantity of gas ?
If there existed any acid matter in oxymuriatic gas , combined with oxygene , it ought to be exhibited in the fluid compound of one proportion of phosphorus , and two of oxymuriatic gas ; for this , on such an assumption , should consist of muriatic acid ( on the old hypothesis , free from water ) and phosphorous acid ; but this substance has no effect on litmus paper , and does not act under common circumstances , on fixed alkaline bases , such as dry lime or magnesia .
Oxymuriatic gas , like oxygene , must be combined in large quantity with peculiar inflammable matter , to form acid matter .
In its union with hydrogene , it instantly reddens the driest litmus paper , though a gaseous body .
Contrary to acids , it expels oxygene from protoxides , and combines with peroxides .
When potassium is burnt in oxymuriatic gas , a dry compound is obtained .
ItF potassium combined with oxygene is .
28 employed , the whole of the oxgene is expelled , and the same compound formed .
It is contrary to sound logic to say , that this exact quantity of oxygene is given off from a body not known to be comipound , when we are certain of its existence in another ; and all the cases are parallel .
An argument in favour of the existence of oxygene in oxymuriatic gas , may be derived by some persons from the circumstances of its formation , by the action of muriatic acid on peroxides , or on hyperoxymuriate of potash ; but a minute investigation of the subject will , I doubt not , sliew that the phenomena of this action are entirely consistent with the views I have brought forward .
By heating muriatic acid gas in colltact with dry peroxide of manganese , water I found was rapidly formed , and oxymuriatic gas produced , and the peroxide rendered brown .
Now as muriatic acid gas is known to consist of oxymuriatic gas and hydrogene , there is no simple explanation of the result , except by saying that the hydrogene of the muriatic acid , combined .
with oxygene from the peroxide to produce water .
SCHEELE explained the bleaching powers of the oxymuriatic gas , by supposing that it destroyed colours by combining with phlogiston .
BERTIIOLLET ' considered it as acting by supplying oxygene .
I. have made an experiment , which seems to prove that the pure gas is incapable of altering vegetable colours , and that its operation in bleaching depends entirely upon its property of decomposing water , and liberating its oxygene .
I filled a glass globe containing dry powdered muriate of lime , with oxymuriatic gas .
I introduced some dry paper tinged with litmus that had been just heated , into another globe .
containing dry muriate of lime ; after some time this globe .
: 29 was exhausted , and then connected with the globe containing the oxymuriatic gs , s and by an appropriate set of stopcocks , ae sxpsdtotacionothe paper gas .
No change of colour took place , and after two days there was scarcely a perc eptible alteration .
Some similar paper dried , introduced into gas that had not been exposed to muriate of lime , was instantly rendered white.* Paper that had not been previously dried , brought in contact with dried gas , underwent the same change , but more slowly .
The hyperoxymuriates seem to owe their bleaching powers entirely to hr loely combi their loosely cobied oxygene there is a strong tendency in the metal of those in common use , to form simple combinations with oxymuriatic gas , and the oxygene is easily expelled or attracted from them .
It is generally stated in chemical books , that oxymuriatic gas is capable of being condensed and crystallized at a low temperature ; I have found by several experiments that this is not the case .
The solution of oxymuriatic gas in water freezes more readily than pure water , but the pure gas dried by muriate of lime undergoes no change whatever , at a temperature of 40 below o ?
of FAHRENHEIT .
The mnistake seems to have arisen from the exposure of the gas to cold in botttles containing moisture .
I attempted to decompose boracic and phosphoric acids by oxymuriatic gas , but without success ; from which it seems probable , that the attractions of boracium and phosphorus for oxygene are stronger than for oxymuriatic gas .
And from the experiments I have already detailed , iron and arsenic are analogous in this respect , and probably some other metals .
Potassium , sodium , calcium , strontium , barium , zinc , mercury , tin , lead , and probably silver , antimony , and gold seem to have a stronger attraction for oxymuriatic gas than for oxygene .
I have as yet been able to make very few experiments on the cormbinations of the oxymuriatic compounds with each other , or with oxides .
The liquor from arsenic , and that from tin , mix , producing an increase of temperature ; and the phosphuretted , and the sulphuretted liquors unite with each other , and with the liquor of LIBAVIUS , but without any remarkable phenomena .
I heated lime gently in a green glass tube , and passed the phosplhoric sublimate , the saturated oxymuriate of phosphorus through it , in vapour ; there was a violent action with the production of heat and light , and a gray fused mass was formed , which afforded by the action of water , muriate and phosphate of lime .
I introduced some vapour from the heated phosphoric sublimate , into an exhausted retort containing dry paper tinged with litmus : the colour slowly changed to pale red .
This fact seems in favour of the idea that the substance is an acid ; but as some minute quantity of aqueous vapour might have been present in the receiver , the experiment cannot be regarded as decisive : the strength of its attraction for ammonia , is perhaps likewise in favour of this opinion .
A11 the oxymuriates that I have tried , indeed form triple compounds with this alkali ; but phosphorus is expelled by a gentle heat from the other compounds of oxymuriatic gas and plhos phlorus with ammonia , and the substance remaining in combination is the phosphoric sublimate .
6 .
Some Refleclions on the Nomenclature of the Oxymuriatic Compounds .
" To call a body which is not known to contain oxygene , and which cannot contain muriatic acid , oxymuriatic acid , is contrary to the principles of that nomenclature in which it is adopted ; and an alteration of it seems necessary to assist the progress of discussion , and to diffuse just ideas on the subject .
If the great discoverer of this substance had signified it by any simple name , it would have been proper to have recurred to it ; but , dephlogisticated marine acid is a term which can hardly be adopted in the present advanced aera of the science .
After consulting some of the most eminent chemical philosophers in this country , it has been judged most proper to suggest a name founded upon one of its obvious and characteristic properties---its colour , and to call it Chlorine , or Chloric gas.* Should it hereafter be discovered to be compound , and even to contain oxygene , this ; name can imply no error , and cannot Anecessarily require a change .
Most of the salts which have been called muriates , are not known to contain any muriatic acid , or any oxygene .
Thus LIBAVIUS 's liquor , though converted into a muriate by water , contains only tin and oxymuriatic gas , and horn-silver seems incapable of being converted into a true muriate .
I venture to propose for the compounds of oxymuriatic gas and inflammable matter , the name of their bases , with the termination an .
Thus argentane may signify horn-silver ; stannane , LIBAVIUS'S liquor ; antimonane , butter of antimony ; sulphurane , Dr. THOMSON 's sulphuretted liquor ; and so on for the rest .
In cases when the proportion is one quantity of oxymuriatic gas , and one of inflammable matter , this nomenclature will be competent to express the class to which the body belongs , and its constitution .
In cases when two or more proportions of inflammable matter , combine with one of gas ; or two or more of gas , with one of inflammable matter , it may be convenient to signify the proportions by affixing vowels before the name , when the inflammable matter predominates , and after the name , when the gas is in excess ; and in the order of the alphabet , a signifying two , e three , i four , and so on .
The name muriatic acid , as applied to the compound of hydrogene and oxymuriatic gas , there seems to be no reason for altering .
And the compounds of this b die with oxides should be characterized in the usual manner , and as the other neutral salts .
Thus muriate of ammonia and muriate of magnesia , are .
perfectly correct expressions .
I shall not dwell any longer at present upon this subject.-What I have advanced , I advance merely as suggestion , and principally , for the purpose of calling the attention of philosophers to it.* As chemistry improves , many other alterations v It may be conceived that a name may be found for the oxymuriatic gas in some modification of its present appellation which may harmonize with the new views , and which may yet signify its relation to the muriatic acid , such as demuriatic gas , or oxymuric gas ; but in this case it would be necessary to call the muriatic acid , hydrogenated muriatic acid , or hydromuriatic acid ; and the salts which contain it wi ell be necessa ary ; and it is to be hoped that whenevertheey take hyd'rogenated muriates or , hydromriats s ; and on such a plan , the compounds of 0oxymuriatic gas must be call d eleurliates or oxymiriates , which I conceive would create more complexity and difficulty in unfolding just ideas on this department of chemical knowledge t'nan t-ie methods which I have ventured to propose .
It may however be right , considering the infant state of the investigation , to suspend , for aa time , the adoption of any new terms for these compounds .
It is possible that oxymuriatic gas may be compound , and that this body and oxygene may contain some common principle ; but at present we have no more right to say that oxymuriatic gas contains oxygene than to say that tin contains hydrogene ; and names should express things and not opinions ; and till a body is decompounded , it should be considered as simple .
In the last number of Mr. NICIHO , soN 's Journal , which appeared February ist , whilst this sheet was correcting for the press , I have seen an ingenious paper , by Mr. MuRaA Y , of Edinburgh , in .
hich he has attempted to show , that oxymuriatic gas contains oxygene .
His methods are , by detoningoxym atic gas in excess , with a mixture of hydrogene , and gaseous oxide of carbone , when he supposes carbonic acid is formed ; ard by mixing oxymuriatic gas in excess , with sulphuretted hydrogene , when he supposes sulphuric acid , or sulphureons acid is formed .
In some experiments , in which my brother , Mr. Jo N DavY , was so good as to co-operate , made over boiled mercury , we found , that 7 parts of hydrogune , 8 parts of gaseous oxide of carbone , and o2 parts of oxymuriatic gas , exploded by the electric spark , diminished to about 30 measures ; and calomel was formed on the sides of the tube .
On adding dry ammonia in excess , and exposing the remainder to water , a gas remained , which equalled more than 9 measures , and wi wich was gaseous oxide ofcarbone , with no more impurity than might be expected from the air in the gasses , and the nitrogene expelled from the ammonia ; so that the oxygene in Mr. MURRAY'S carbonic acid , it seems , was obtained from water , or from the car'bonic oxide .
Sulplluretted hydrogene , added over dry mercury , to oxymuriatic gas in excess , inflaned in two or three experiments ; muriatic acid gas containing the vapour of oxymuriate of sulIphur , was formed , which , when neutralized by ammonia , gave muriate of ammonia , and a combination of ammonia , and oxymuriate of sulphur .
When a mixture of oxyMr/ uriatic gas in excess , and sulphuretted hydrogene , was suff-red to pass into the atmosphere , the smell was that of oxymuriate of suliphur ; there was not the slightest indication of the presence of any sulphuric or sulphr ious acid .
If Mr. Mu Ra Y had used ammonia , instead of water , for analyzing his r.rsults , I do not think he would have concluded , that oxymuriatic gas is capable of &amp; dicom position by such methods , I shall not , at present , enter upon a detail cf other experiments which I have made place , they will be made independent of all speculative views , and that new names will be derived from some simple and invariable property , and that mere arbitrary designations will be employed , to signify the class to which compounds or simple bodies belong .
on this subject , in co-operation with my brother , as it is his intention to refer to them , in an answer to Mr. MURRAY'S paper .
I shall conclude , by saying , that this ingenious chemist , has mistaken my views , in supposing them hypoteictical ; I merely state what I have seen , and what I have found , There may be oxygene in oxymnuriatic gas ; but I can find none .
I repeated Mr. MU RRAY'S experiments with great interest ; and their results , when water is excluded , entirely confirm all my ideas on the subject , and afford no support to the hypothetical ideas , which he has laboured so zealously to defend .
Fs !
' 235 PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. The Bakerian Lecture .
On some of the Combinations of Oxymuriatic Gas and Oxygene , and on the chemical Relations of these Principles , to inflammable Bodies .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. LL. D. Sec. R. S. F R. S. E. M. R. L A. and M.R. L Read November S1 , i8io .
1 .
Introduction .
IN the last communication which I had the honour of prt senting to the Royal Society , I stated a number of facts , which inclined me to believe , that the body improperly called in the modern nomenclature of chemistry , oxymuriatic acid gas , has not as yet been decompounded ; but that it is a peculiar substance , elementary as far as our knowledge extends , and analogous in many of its properties to oxygene gas .
My objects in the present Lecture , are to detail a number of experiments which I have made for the purpose of illustrating more fully the nature , properties , and combinations of this substance , and its attractions for inflammable bodies , as compared with those of oxygene ; and likewise to present MCCCXL B some general views and conclusions concerning the chemical powers of different species of matter , and the proportions itr which they enter into union .
I have been almost constantly employed , since the last session of the Society , upon these researches , yet this time has ' not been sufficient to enable me to approach to any thing complete in the investigation .
But on subjects , important both in their connexion with the higher departiments of chemical philosophy , and with the ceconomical applications of chemistry , I trust that even these imperfect labours will not be wholly unacceptable .
O : .
0n the Combinations of Oxymuriatic Gas a OxYgene , with the Metalsfrom the fixed Alkalies .
The intensity of the attraction of potassium for oxymuriatic gas , is shown by its spontaneous inflammation in that substance , and by the vividness of the combustion .
I satisfied myself , by various minute experiments , that no water is separated in this operation , and that the proportions of the compound are such that one grain of potassium absorbs about 1.1 cubical inch of oxymuriatic gas at the mean temperature ; and pressure , and that tley form a neutral compound , which undergoes no change by fusion .
I used , in the experiments from which these conclusions are drawn , 'a tray of platina for receiving the potassium ; the metal was heated in an exhausted vessel , to decompose any water absorbed by the crust of potash , which forms upon the potassium during its exposure to the atmosphere , and the gas was freed from vapour by muriate of lime .
Large masses of potassium cannnot be made to inflame , without heat in oxymuriatic gas .
In all experi ments in which I fused the potassium upon glass , the retorts broke in pieces in consequence of the violence of the combustion , and even in two instances when I used the tray of platina .
If oxymuriatic gas be used , not freed from vapour , or if the potassium has been previously exposed to the air , a little moisture always separates during the process of combustion .
When pure potassium , and pure oxymuriatic gas are used , the result , as I have stated , is a mere binary compound , the same as inuriate of potash , that has undergone ignition .
The combustion of potassium and sodium in oxygene gas , is much less vivid than in oxymuriatic gas .
From this phenomenon , and from some others , I was inclined to believe that the attraction of these metals for oxygene is feebler , than their attraction for oxymuriatic gas .
I made several experiments , which proved that this is the fact ; but before I enter upon a detail of them , it will be necessary to discuss more fully than I have yet attempted , the nature of the combinations of potassium and sodium with oxygene , and of potash and soda with water .
I have stated in the last Bakerian Lecture , that potassium and sodium , when burnt in oxygene gas , produce potash and soda in a state of extreme dryness , and very difficult of fusion .
In the experiments from which these conclusions are drawn , as I mentioned , , I used trays of platina , and finding that this metal was oxidated in the operation , I heated the retort strongly , to expel any oxygene the platina might have absorbed , and except in cases when this precaution was taken , I found the absorption of oxygene much greater than could be accounted for by the production of the alkalies .
In all

