IX .
An Account of some Experiments and Observations on the constituent Parts of certain astringent Vegetables ; and on their Operation in Tanning .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read February 24 , 180o THE discovery made by M. SEGUIN , of a peculiar vegetable matter which is essential to the tanning of skin , and which is possessed of the property of precipitating gelatine from its solutions , has added considerably to our knowledge of the constituent parts of astringent vegetables .
Mr. PROUST has investigated many of the properties of this substance ; but , though his labours , and those of other chemists , have led to various interesting observations , yet they are far from having exhausted the subject .
The affinities of tannin have been hitherto very little examined ; and the manner in which its action upon animal matters is modified by combination with other substances , has been scarcely at all studied .
At the desire of the Managers of the Royal Institution , I began , in September , 18o1 , a series of experiments on the substances employed in the process of tanning , and on the chemical agencies concerned in it .
These experiments have occupied , ever since , a considerable portion of my leisure hours ; and I now presume to lay before the Royal Society an account of their general results .
My chief design was , to attempt to elucidate the practical part of the art ; but , in pursuing it , I was necessarily led to general chemical inquiries concerning the analysis of the different vegetable substances containing tannin , and their peculiar properties .
I. OBSERVATIONS ON THE ANALYSIS OF ASTRINGENT VEGETABLE INFUSIONS .
The substances that have been supposed to exist most generally in astringent infusions are , tannin , gallic acid , and extractive matter .
The presence of tannin in an infusion , is denoted by the precipitate it forms with the solution of glue , or of isinglass .
And , when this principle is wholly separated , if the remaining liquor gives a dark colour with the oxygenated salts of iron , and an immediate precipitate with the solutions of alum and of muriate of tin , it is believed to contain gallic acid , and extractive matter .
The experiments of MM .
FOURCROY , VAUQUELIN , and SEGUIN , have shown that many astringent solutions undergo a change by exposure to the atmosphere ; an insoluble matter being precipitated from them .
A precipitation is likewise occasioned in them by the action of heat ; and these circumstances render it extremely difficult to ascertain , with any degree of precision , the quantities of their constituent parts , as they exist in the primtitive combination .
After trying several experiments on different methods of ascertaining the quantity of tannin in astringent infusions , I was induced to employ the common process of precipitation by gelatine , as being the most accurate .
This process , however , requires many precautions .
The tanning principle in different vegetables , as will be seen hereafter , demands for its saturation different proportions of gelatine ; and 234 !
the quantity of the preciptat obtained by filtration , is not always exactly proportional to the quantities of tannin and gelatine in solutions , but is influenced by the degree of their concentration .
Thus , I found that io grains of dry isinglass , dissolved in two ounces of distilled water , gave , with solution of galls in excess , a precipitate weighing , when dry , 17 grains ; whilst the same quantity , dissolved in six ounces of water , produced , all other circumstances being similar , not quite 15 grains .
With more diluted solutions , the loss was still greater ; and analogous effects took place , when equal portions of the same solution of isinglass were acted on by equal portions of the same infusion of galls diluted in difrent degrees with water ; the l2ast quantity of precipitate being always produced by the least concentrated liquor .
In all cases , when the weak solutions were used , it was observed , that the residual fluid , though passed two or three times through the filtre , still remained more or less turbid and opaque ; so that it is most likely that the deficiency arose from the continued suspension of some of the minutely divided solid matter in the liquid mass , The solutions of gelatine , for the purposes of analysis , should be employed only when quite fresh , and in as high a state of saturation as is compatible with their perfect fluidity .
I have observed that in cases when they approach towards the state of jelly , their power of acting upon tannin is materially alterd , and they produce only a very slight precipitation .
As the degree of fluidity of solutions of gelatine is influenced by their tmperature , I have found it expedient , in all comparative experiments to bring them and the astringent infusions on which they are designed to act , as nearly as possible to a common degre of heat .
My standard tempnrature has been betwee n 6C HI hM 2*5 and 70 ?
FAHRENHEIT ; and the solutions of gelatine that I have used , were made by dissolving 120 grains of isinglass in 20 ounces of water .
In ascertaining the proportions of tannin in astringent infusions , great care must be taken to prevent the presence of any excess of gelatine ; for , when this excess exists , I have found that a small portion of the solid compound formed is redissolved , and the results of the experiment otherwise affected .
It is not difficult to discover the precise point of saturation , if the solution of isinglass be added only in small quantities at a time , and if portions of the clear liquor be passed through a filtre at different periods of the process .
The properties of these portions will indicate the quantities of the solution of gelatine required for the completion of the experiment .
That the composition of any precipitate containing tannin and gelatine may be known with a tolerable degree of precision , it is necessary that the isinglass employed in the solution , and the new compound formed , be brought as nearly as possible to the same degree of dryness .
For this purpose , I have generally exposed them , for an equal time , upon the lower plate of a sandbath , which was seldom heated to more than 150 ? .
This method I have found much better than that of drying at the temperatures of the atmosphere , as the different states of the air , with regard to moisture , materially influence the results .
Mr. HATCHETT has noticed , in his excellent Paper on Zoophytes , &amp;c. * that isinglass is almost wholly composed of gelatine .
I have found , that ioo grains of good and dry isinglass contain rather more than 98 grains of matter soluble in water .
So that , when the quantity of isinglass , in any solution employed for acting upon an astringent infusion , is compared with the quantity of the precipitate obtained , the difference between them will indicate the proportion of tannin , as it exists in the combination .
After the tannin has been separated from an astringent infusion , for the purpose of ascertaining its other component parts , I have been accustomed to evaporate the residual liquor very slowly , at a temperature below 2oo ?
.* In this process , if it contains extractive matter , that substance is in part rendered insoluble , so as to fall to the bottom of the vessel .
When the fluid is reduced to a thick consistence , I pour alcohol upon it .
If any gallic acid or soluble extractive matter be present , they will be dissolved , after a little agitation , in the alcohol ; whilst the mucilage , if any exist , will remain unaltered , and may be separated from the insoluble extract , by lixiviation with water .
I have made many experiments , with the hope of discovering a method by which the respective quantities of gallic acid and extractive matter , when they exist in solution in the alcohol , may be ascertained ; but without obtaining success in the results .
It is impossible to render the whole of any quantity of extractive matter insoluble by exposure to heat and air , without at the same time decomposirg a portion of the gallic acid .
That acid cannot be sublimed , without being in part destroyed ; and , at the temperature of its sublimation , extractive matter is wholly converted into new products .
Ether dissolves gallic acid ; but it has comparatively little :action upon extractive matter .
I have been able , in examining solutions of galls , to separate a portion of gallic acid by means of ether .
But , when the extractive matter is in large quantities , this method does not succeed , as , in consequence of that affinity which is connected with mass , * the greatest part of the acid continues to adhere to the extract .
Alumine has a strong attraction for extractive matter ; but comparatively a weak one for gallic acid.-f When carbonate of alumine is boiled for some time with a solution containing extractive matter , the extractive matter is wholly taken up by the earth , with which it forms an insoluble compound ; but , into this compound , some of the gallic acid appears likewise to enter ; and the portion remaining dissolved in the solution is always combined with alumine .
I have not , in any instance , been able to separate gallic acid and extractive matter perfectly from each other ; but I have generally endeavoured to form some judgment concerning their relative proportions , by means of the action of the salts of alumine , and the oxygenated salts of iron .
Muriate of alumine precipitates much of the extractive matter from solutions , without acting materially upon gallic acid ; and , after this precipitation , some idea may be formed concerning the quantity of the gallic acid , by the colour it gives with the oxygenated sulphate of iron .
In this process , however , great care must be taken not to add the solution of the sulphate of iron in excess ; for , in this case , the black precipitate formed with the gallic acid will be redissolved , and a clear olive-coloured fluid only will be obtained .
The saline matters in astringent infusions , adhlere so strongly to the vegetable principles , that it is impossible to ascertain their nature with any degree of accuracy , by means of common reagents .
By incineration of the products obtained from the evaporation of astringent infusions , I have usually procured carbonate of lime and carbonate of potash .
In the different analyses , as will be seen from the results given in the following sections , I have attended chiefly to the proportions of the tanning principle , and of the principles precipitable by the salts of iron , as being most connected with practical applications .
With regard to the knowledge of the nature of the different substances , as they exist in the primitive astringent infusion , we can gain , by our artificial methods of examination , only very imperfect approximations .
In acting upon them by reagents , we probably , in many cases , alter their nature ; and very few of them only can be obtained in an uncombined state .
The comparison , however , of the products of different experiments with each other , is always connected with some useful conclusions ; and the accumulation of facts with regard to the subject , must finally tend to elucidate this obscure but most interesting part of chemistry .
II .
EXPERIMENTS ON THE INFUSIONS OF GALLS .
I have been very much assisted in my inquiries concerning the properties of the infusions of galls , by the able Memoir of M. DEYEUX , on galls.* The strongest infusion of galls that I could obtain , at 56 ?
FAHRENHEIT , by repeatedly pouring distilled water upon the best Aleppo galls broken into small pieces , and suffering it to remain in contact with them till the saturation was complete , was of the specific gravity 1.o68 .
Four hundred grains of it produced , by evaporation at a temperature below 20oo , fifty-three grains of solid matter ; which , as well as I could estimate , by the methods of analysis that have been just described , consisted of about I9of tannin , or matter precipitable by gelatine , and of gallic acid , united to a minute portion of extractive matter .
1oo grains of the solid matter obtained from the infusion , left , after incineration , nearly 4 ?
grains of ashes ; which were chiefly calcareous matter , mixed with a small portion of fixed alkali .
The infusion strongly reddened paper tinged with litmus .
It was semitransparent , and of a yellowish-brown colour .
Its taste was highly astringent .
When sulphuric acid ' was poured into the infusion , a dense whitish precipitate was produced ; and this effect was constant , whatever quantity of the acid was used .
The residual liquor , when passed through the filtre , was found of a shade of colour deeper than before .
It precipitated gelatine , and gave a dark colour with the oxygenated sulphate of iron .
The solid matter remaining on the filtre , slightly reddened vegetable blues ; and , when dissolved in warm water , copiously precipitated the solutions of isinglass .
M. PROUST , * who first paid attention to its properties , supposes that it is a compound of the acid with tannin : but I suspect that it also contains gallic acid , and probably a small portion of extractive matter . ?
The fact of the precipitation of solution of galls by acids , was noticed by M. DIZE ' .
See Annals de Cbimie , Tome XXXV .
p. 37 .
This last substance , as is xwel known , is thrown down from its solutions by sulphuric acid ; and I found , in distilling the precipitate from galls by sulphuric acid , at a heat above 12i , that a fluid came over , of a light yellow colour , which was rendered black by oxy genated sulphate of iron ; but which was not altered by gelatine .
Muriatic acid produced , in the infusion , effects analogous to those produced by sulphuric acid ; and two compounds of the acid and the vegetable substances were formed : the one united to excess of acid , which remained in solution ; the other containing a considerable quantity of tannin , which was precipitated in the solid form .
When concentrated nitric acid was made to act upon the infusion , it was rendered turbid ; but the solid matter formed was immediately dissolved with effervescence , and the liquor then became clear , and of an orange colour .
On examining it , it was found that both the tannin and the gallic acid were destroyed ; for it gave no precipitate , either with gelatine or the salts of iron , even after the residual nitric acid was saturated by an alkali .
By evaporation of a portion of the fluid , a soft substance was obtained , of a yellowish-brown colour , and of a slightly sourish taste .
It was soluble in water , and precipitated the nitro-muriate of tin , and the nitrate of alumine ; so that its properties approached to those of extractive matter ; and it probably contained oxalic acid , as it rendered turbid a solution of muriate of lime .
When a very weak solution of nitric acid was mixed with the infusion , a permanent precipitate was formed ; and the residual liquor , examined by the solution of gelatine , was found to contain tannin .
A solution of pure potash was poured into a portion of the .
infusion .
At first , a faint turbid appearance was perceived ; but , by agitation , the fluid became clear , and its colour changed from yellow brown to brown red ; and this last tint was most vivid on the surface , where the solution was exposed to the atmosphere .
The solution of isinglass did not act upon the infusion modified by the alkali , till an acid was added in excess , when a copious precipitation was occasioned .
The compound of potash and solution of galls , when evaporated , appeared in the form of an olive-coloured mass , which had a faint alkaline taste , and which slowly deliquesced when exposed to the air .
Soda acted upon the infusion in the same manner as potash ; and a fluid was formed , of a red-brown colour , which gave no precipitate to gelatine .
Solution of ammonia produced the same colour as potash and soda , and formed so perfect an union with the tannin of the infusion , that it was not acted upon by gelatine .
When the compound liquor was exposed to the heat of boiling water , a part of the ammonia flew off , and another part reacted upon the infusion , so as to effect a material change in its properties .
A considerable quantity of insoluble matter was formed ; and the remaining liquor contained little tannin and gallic acid , but a considerable portion of a substance that precipitated muriate of tin , and the salts of alumine .
When the experiment on the ebullition of the compound of the infusion and ammonia was made in close vessels , the liquor that came over was strongly impregnated with ammonia ; its colour was light yellow , and , when saturated with an acid , it was very little altered by the salts of iron .
The residual fluid , after the process had been continued for some time , as in the other case , precipitated gelatine slightly , but the salts of alumine copiously ; and it gave a tinge of red to litmus paper .
When solution of lime , of strontia , or of barytes , was poured in excess into a portion of the infusion , a copious olive-coloured precipitate was formed , and the solution became almost clear , and of a reddish tint .
In this case , the tannin , the gallic acid , and the extractive matter , seemed to be almost wholly carried down in the precipitates ; as the residual fluids , when saturated by an acid , gave no precipitate to gelatine , and only a very slight tint of purple to oxygenated sulphate of iron .
When the solutions of the alkaline earths were used only in small quantities , the infusion being in excess , a smaller quantity of precipitate was formed , and the residual liquor was of an olive-green colour ; the tint being darkest in the experiment with the barytes , and lightest in that with the lime .
This fluid , when examined , was found to hold in solution a compound of gallic acid and alkaline earth .
It became turbid when acted on by-a little sulphuric acid ; and , after being filtrated , gave a black colour with the solutions of iron , but was not acted upon by gelatine .
When a large proportion of lime was heated for some time with the infusion , it combined with all its constituent principles , and gave , by washing , a fluid which had the taste of lime-water , and which held in solution only a very small quantity of vegetable matter .
Its colour was pale yellow ; and , when saturated with muriatic acid , it did not precipitate gelatine , and gave only a slight purple tinge to the solutions of the salts of iron .
The lime in combination with the solid matter of the infusion , was of a fawn colour .
It became green at its surface , where it was exposed to the air ; and , when washed with large quantities of water , .
i2 243 it continued to give , even to the last portions , a pale yellow tinge .
Magnesia was boiled in one portion of the infusion for a few hours ; and mixed in excess with another portion , which was suffered to remain cold .
In both cases , a deep green fluid was obtained , which-precipitated the salts of iron , but not the solutions of gelatine ; and the magnesia had acquired a grayishgreen tint .
Water poured upon it became green , and acquired the properties of the fluid at first obtained .
After long washing , the colour of the magnesia changed to dirty yellow ; and the last portions of water made to act upon it were pale yellow , and altered very little the solutions of iron .
When the magnesia was dissolved in muriatic acid , a brownish and turbid fluid was obtained , which precipitated gelatine and the oxygenated salts of iron .
So that there is every reason to believe , that the earth , in acting on the astringent infusion , had formed two combinations ; one containing chiefly gallic acid , which was easily soluble in water ; the other containing chiefly tannin , which was very difficultly soluble .
Alumine boiled with the infusion became yellowish-gray , and gave a clear white fluid , which produced only a tinge of light purple in the solutions of iron .
When the earth* was employed in very small quantity , however , it formed an insoluble compound only with the tannin and the extract ; and the residual liquor was found to contain a gallate of alumine with excess of acid .
The oxides of tin and of zinc , obtained by nitric acid , were boiled with separate portions of the infusion for two hours .
In both cases , a clear fluid , which appeared to be pure water , was obtained ; and the oxides gained a tint of dull yellow .
A part of each of them was dissolved in muriatic acid .
The solution obtained was yellow : it copiously precipitated gelatine ; and gave a dense black with the salts of iron .
Mr. PROUST , * who first observed the action of oxide of tin upon astringent infusions , supposes that portions of tannin and gallic acid are decomposed in the process , or converted , by the oxygen of the oxide , into new substances .
These experiments do not , however , appear to confirm the supposition .
M. DEYEUX observed , that a copious precipitation was occasioned in infusion of galls , by solutions of the alkalis combined with carbonic acid .
Mr. PROUST has supposed that the solid matter formed is pure tannin , separated from its solution by the stronger affinity of the alkali for water ; and he recommends theprocess , as a method of obtaining tannin .
In examining the precipitate obtained by carbonate of potash fully combined with carbonic acid , and used to saturation , I have not been able to recognise in it the properties which are usually ascribed to tannin : : it is not possessed of the astringent taste ; and it is but slightly soluble in , cold water , or in alcohol .
Its solution acts very little upon gelatine , till it is saturated with an acid ; and it is not possessed of the property of tanning skin .
In various cases , in which the greatest care was taken to use no excess , either of the astringent infusion or of the alkaline solution , I have found the solid matter obtained possessed of analogous properties ; and it has always given , by incineration , a considerable portion of carbonate of potash , and a small quantity of carbonate of lime .
The fluid remaining after the separation of the precipitate , 9 Annals de ; Chimie , Tome XLII .
p. 69 .
245 was of a dark-brown colour , and became green at the surface , when it was exposed to the air .
It gave no precipitate to solution of gelatine ; and afforded only an olive-coloured precipitate with the salts of iron .
When muriatic acid was poured into the clear fluid , a violent effervescence was produced ; the fluid became turbid ; a precipitate was deposited ; and the residual liquor acted upon gelatine and the salts of iron , in a manner similar to the primitive infusion .
M. DEYEUX , in distilling the precipitate from infusion of galls by carbonate of potash , obtained crystals of gallic acid .
In following his process , I had similar results ; and a fluid came over , which reddened litmus-paper , and precipitated the salts of iron black , but did not act upon gelatine .
When the precipitate by carbonate of potash was acted upon by warm water , applied in large quantities , a considerable portion of it was dissolved ; but a part remained , which could not in any way be made to enter into solution ; and its properties were very different from those of the entire precipitate .
It was not at all affected by alcohol : it was acted on by muriatic acid , and partially dissolved ; and the solution precipitated gelatine and the salts of iron .
It afforded , by incineration , a considerable portion of lime , but no alkali .
In comparing these facts , it would seem , that the precipitate from infusion of galls , consists partly of tannin and gallic acid united to a small quantity of alkali , and partly of these v:.getable matters combined with calcareous earth ; and it will app .
are , probable , when the facts hereafter detailed are examined , that both the potash and the lime are contained in tihese compounds in a state of union with carbonic acid .
The solutions of carbonate of soda and of carbonate of s46 ammonia , both precipitated the infusion of galls in a manner similar to the carbonate of potash ; and each of the precipitates , when acted on by boiling water , left a small quantity of insoluble matter , which seemed to consist chiefly of tannin and carbonate of lime .
The entire precipitate by carbonate of soda produced , when incinerated , carbonate of soda and carbonate of lime .
TIhe precipitate by carbonate of ammonia , when exposed to a heat sufficient to boil water , in a retort having a receiver attached to it , gave out carbonate of ammonia , ( which was condensed in small crystals in the neck of the retort , ) and a yellowish fluid , which had the strong smell and taste of this volatile salt .
After the process of distillation , the solid matter remaining was found of a dark brown colour ; a part of it readily dissolved in cold water , and the solution acted on gelatine .
The residual fluid of the portions of the infusion which had been acted on by the carbonates of soda and of ammonia , as in the instance of the carbonate of potash , gave no precipitate with gelatine , till they were saturated with an acid ; so that , in all these cases , the changes are strictly analogous .
The infusion of galls , as appears from the analysis , contains in its primitive state calcareous matter .
By the action of the mild alkalis , this substance is precipitated in union with a portion of the vegetable matter , in the form of an insoluble compound .
The alkalis themselves , at the same time , enter into actual combination with the remaining tannin and gallic acid ; and a part of the compound formed is precipitated , whilst another part remains in solution .
When the artificial carbonates of lime , magnesia , and barytes , were separately boiled with pErtions of the infusion of gatis for some.hours , they combined with the tannin contained in it , so as to form with it insoluble compounds ; and , in each case , a deep green fluid was obtained , which gave no precipitate to gelatine , even when an acid was added , but which produced a deep black colour in the solutions of the salts of iron .
Sulphate of lime , when finely divided , whether natural or artificial , after having been long heated with a small quantity of the infusion , was found to have combined with the tannin of it , and to have gained a faint tinge of light brown .
The liquid became of a blue-green colour , and acted upon the salts of iron , but not upon gelatine ; and there is every reason to suppose , that it held in solution a triple compound , of gallic acid , sulphuric acid , and lime .
We owe to Mr. PROUST , the discovery that different solutions of the neutral salts precipitate the infusion of galls ; and he supposes , that the precipitation is owing to their combining with a portion of the water which held the vegetable matter in solution .
In examining the solid matters thrown down from the infusion , by sulphate of alumine , nitrate of potash , acetite of potash , muriate of soda , and muriate of barytes , I found them soluble , to a certain extent , in water , and possessed of the power of acting upon gelatine .
From the products given by their incineration , and by their distillation , I am however inclined to believe that they contain , besides tannin , a portion of gallic acid and extractive matter , and a quantity of the salt employed in the primitive solution .
It is well known , that many of the metallic solutions occasion dense precipitates in the infusion of galls ; and it has been generally supposed , that these precipitates are composed of tannin and extractive matter , or of those two substances and gallic acid , united 248 to the metallic oxide ; but , from the observation of different processes of this kind , in which the salts of iron and of tin were employed , I am inclined to believe , that they contain also a portion of the acid of the saline compound .
When the muriate of tin was made to act upon a portion of the infusion , till no more precipitation could be produced in it , the fluid that passed through the filtre still acted upon gelatine , and seemed to contain no excess of acid ; for it gave a precipitate to carbonate of potash , without producing effervescence .
The solid compound , when decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen , after the manner recommended by Mr. PROUST , was found strongly to redden litmus-paper , and it copiously precipitated nitrate of silver ; whereas , the primitive infusion only rendered it slightly turbid ; so that there is every reason to believe , that the precipitate contained muriatic acid .
By passing the black and turbid fluid , procured by the action of solution of oxygenated sulphate of iron in excess upon a portion of the infusion , through finely-divided pure flint , contained in four folds of filtrating paper , I obtained a light olivegreen fluid , in which there was no excess of sulphuric acid , and which I am inclined to suppose was a solution of the compound of gallic acid and sulphate of iron , with superabundance of metallic salt .
I have already mentioned that gallic acid , when in very small proportion , does not precipitate the oxygenated salts of iron ; and Mr. PROUST , in his ingenious Paper upon the Difference of the Salts of Iron , has supposed that , in the formation of ink , a portion of the oxide of iron in union with gallic acid is dissolved by the sulphuric acid of the sulphate .
This comes near to the opinion that they form a triple compound : and , in reasoning upon the general phenomena , it seems fair to conclude , that , in the case of the precipitation of tannin by the salts of tin and of iron , compounds are formed , of tannin and the salts ; and that , of these compounds , such as contain tin are slightly soluble in water , whilst those that contain iron are almost wholly insoluble .
In examining the action of animal substances upon the infusion of galls , with the view of ascertaining the composition of the compounds of gelatine , and of skin , with tannin , I foundthat a saturated solution of gelatine , which contained the soluble matter of 50 grains of dry isinglass , produced from the infusion a precipitate that weighed nearly 91 grains ; and , in another instance , a solution containing 30 grains of isinglass,.gave about 56 grains ; so that , taking the mean of the two experiments , and allowing for the small quantity of insoluble matter in isinglass , we may conclude , that too grains of the compound of gelatine and tannin , formed by precipitation from saturated solutions , contain about 54 grains .
of gelatine , and 46 of tannin .
A piece of dry calf-skin , perfectly free from extraneous matter , that weighed i80 grains , after being prepared for tanning by long immersion in water , was tanned in a portion of the infusion , being exposed to it for three weeks .
When dry , the leather weighed 295 grains : so that , considering this experiment as accurate , leather quickly tanned by means of an infusion of galls , consists of about 61 grains of skin , and 39 of vegetable matter , in too grains .
After depriving a portion of the infusion of all its tanning matter , by repeatedly exposing it to the action of pieces of skin , I found that it gave a much slighter colour to oxygenated sulphate of iron , than an equal portion of a similar infusion which had been immediately precipitated by solution of isinglass ; but I am inclined to attribute this effect , not to any absorption of gallic acid by the skin , but rather to the decomposition of it by the long continued action of the atmosphere ; for much insoluble matter had been precipitated , during the process of tanning , and the residuum contained a small portion of acetous acid .
In ascertaining the quantity of tannin in galls , I found that 500 grains of good Aleppo galls gave , by lixiviation with pure water till their soluble parts were taken up , and subsequent slow evaporation , 185 grains of solid matter .
And this matter , examined by analysis , appeared to consist , Of tannin 30 grains .
-Of mucilage , and matter rendered insoluble by evaporation 1Of gallic acid , with a little extractive matter 31 Renainder , calcareous earth and saline matter 12 The fluid obtained by the last lixiviation of galls , as M. DEYEUX observed , is pale green ; and I am inclined to believe , that it is chiefly a weak solution of gallate of lime .
The ashes of galls , deprived of soluble matter , furnish a very considerable quantity of calcareous earth .
And the property which M. DEYEUX discovered in the liquor of the last lixiviations , of becoming red by the action of acids , and of regaining the green colour by means of alkalis , I have observed , more or less , in all the soluble compounds contailing gallic acid and the alkaline earths .
Kk 2 251 III .
EXPERIMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS ON CATECH-U OR TERRA JAPONICA .
The extract called catechu is said to be obtained from the wood of a species of the Mimosa , * which is found abundantly in India , by decoction and subsequent evaporation .
There are two kinds of this extract ; one is sent from Bombay , the other from Bengal ; and they differ from each other more in their external appearance than in their chemical composition .
The extract from Bombay is of an uniform texture , and of a red-brown tint , its specific gravity being generally about 1.39 .
The extract from Bengal is more friable , and less consistent ; its colour is like that of chocolate externally , but , when broken , its fracture presents streaks of chocolate and of red-brown .
Its specific gravity is about 1.28 .
Their tastes are precisely similar , being astringent , but leaving in the mouth a sensation of sweetness .
They do not deliquesce , or apparently change , by exposure to the air .
The discovery of the tanning powers of catechu , is owing to the President of the Royal Society , who , concluding from its sensible properties that it contained tannin , furnished me , in December , 18o1 , with a quantity for chemical examination .
In my first experiments , I found that the solutions of catechu copiously precipitated gelatine , and speedily tanned skin ; and , in consequence , I began a particular investigation of their properties .
The strongest infusions and decoctions of the two different kinds of catechu , do not sensibly differ in their nature , or in their composition .
Their colour is deep red-brown , and they communicate this tinge to paper ; they slightly redden litmuspaper ; their taste is highly astringent , and they have no perceptible smell .
The strongest infusions that I could obtain from the twov kinds of catechu , at 48 ?
FAHRENHEIT , were of the same specific gravity , 1.057 .
But , by long decoction , I procured solutions of 1.102 , which gave , by evaporation , more than { of their weight of solid matter .
Five hundred grains of the strongest infusion of catechu from Bombay , furnished only 41 grains of solid matter ; which , from analysis , appeared to consist of 34 grains of tannin , or matter precipitable by gelatine , and 7 grains that were chiefly a peculiar extractive matter , the properties of which will be hereafter described .
The quantity of solid matter given by the strongest infusion of the Bengal catechu , was the same , and there was no sensible difference in its composition .
Portions of these solid matters , when incinerated , left a residuum which seemed to be calcareous ; but it was too small in quantity to be accurately examined , and it could not have amounted to more than 20o of their original weights .
The strongest infusions of catechu acted upon the acids and pure alkalis in a manner analogous to the infusion of galls .
With the concentrated sulphuric and muriatic acids , they gave dense light fawn coloured precipitates .
With strong nitrous acid they effervesced ; and lost their power of precipitating the solutions of isinglass , and the salts of iron .
The pure alkalis entered into union with their tannin , so as to prevent it from being acted upon by gelatine .
When the solutions of lime , of strontia , or of barytes , were a53 poured into the infusions , copious precipitates , of a shade of light brown , were formed ; and the residual fluid assumed a paler tint of red , and was found to have lost its power of precipitating gelatine .
After lime had been boiled for some time with a portion of the infusion , it assumed a dull red 'colour .
The liquor that passed from it.through the filtre had only a faint tint of red , did not act upon gelatine , and seemed to contain only a very small portion of vegetable matter .
Pure magnesia , when heated , with the infusion , acted upon it in an analogous manner ; the magnesia became light red , and the residual fluid had only a very slight tinge of that colour .
With carbonate of magnesia , the infusion became deeper in colour , and lost its power of precipitating gelatine ; though it still gave , with oxygenated sulphate 'of iron , a light olive precipitate .
The carbonates of potash , of soda , and of ammonia , in their concentrated solutions , produced only a slight degree of turbidness in the infusion of catechu : they communicated to them a darker colour , and deprived them of the power of acting upon gelatine ; though this power was restored by the addition of an acid .
After the mixture of the solution of carbonate of potash and the infusions had been exposed to the atmosphere for some hours , a brown crust was found to have formed upon its surface , and a slight precipitation had taken place .
The salts of alumine precipitated the infusions , but less copiously than they precipitate the infusion of galls .
A similar effect was produced by nitrate of potash , sulphate of magnesia , prussiate of potash , and many other neutral salts .
954 The nitrate , or acetite , of lead , in concentrated solution , when poured into the infusion , produced in it a dense light brown precipitate , which gave to the fluid a gelatinous appearance .
After this effect , there was no free acid found in it ; and both the tannin and the extractive matter seemed to have been carried down , in union with a portion of the metallic salt .
The solution of muriate of tin , acted upon the infusion of catechu in a manner similar to that in which it acts upon the infusion of galls .
The least oxygenated sulphate of iron produced no change in the infusion .
With the most oxygenated sulphate it gave a dense black precipitate , which , when diffused upon paper , appeared rather more inclined to olive than the precipitate from galls .
The infusions were precipitated by the solution of albumen .
The precipitates by gelatine had all a pale tint of red-brown , which became deeper when they were exposed to the air .
The compound of gelatine and the tannin of the strongest infusions of catechu appeared , by estimation of the quantity of isinglass in the solutions used for their precipitation , to consist of about 41 parts of tannin , and 59 of gelatine .
Of two pieces of calf-skin which weighed , when dry , 132 grains each , and which had been prepared for tanning , one was immersed in a large quantity of the infusion of catechu from Bengal , and the other in an equal portion of the infusion of that from Bombay .
In less than a month they were found converted into leather .
When freed from nm oisture , by long exposure in the sunshine , they were weighed .
The first piece had gained about 34 grains ; and the second piece 35 grains .
The leather was of a much deeper colour than that tanned with galls , and on the upper surface was red-brown .
It was not acted on by hot or cold water ; and its apparent strength was the same as that of similar leather tanned in the usual manner .
In examining the remainder of the infusions of catechu , in which skin had been converted into leather , I found in them much less extractive matter than I had reason to expect , from the comparative analysis of equal portions of the unaltered infusions made by solutions of gelatine .
At first , I was inclined to suppose that the deficiency arose from the action of the atmosphere upon the extractive matter , by which a part of it was rendered insoluble .
But , on considering that there had been very little precipitation in the process , I was led to adopt the supposition , that it had entered into union with the skin , at the same time with the tannin ; and this supposition was confirmed by new experiments .
Both kinds of catechu are almost wholly soluble in large quantities of water ; and , to form a complete solution , about 18 ounces of water , at 520 , are required to ioo grains of extract .
The residuum seldom amounts to i4 of the original weight of the catechu ; and , in most cases , it is found to consist chiefly of calcareous and aluminous earths , and of fine sand , which , by accident or design , had probably been mixed with the primitive infusion at the time of its evaporation .
A considerable portion of both kinds of catechu is soluble in alcohol ; but , after the action of alcohol upon it , a substance remains , of a gelatinous appearance and a light brown colour , which is soluble in water , and is analogous in its properties to gum or mucilage .
The peculiar extractive matter in the catechu , is much less e56 soluble in water than the tanning principle ; and , when a small quantity of water is used to a large quantity of catechu , the quantity of tannin taken up , as appears from the nature of the strongest infusion , is veryt much greater than that of the extractive matter .
The extractive matter is much more soluble in warm water than in cold water ; and , when saturated solutions of catechu are made in boiling water , a considerable quantity of extractive matter , in its pure state , falls down , as the liquor becomes cool .
The peculiar extractive matter of the catechu may be likewise obtained , by repeatedly lixiviating the catechu , when in fine powder , till the fluids obtained cease to precipitate gelatine ; the residual solid will then be found to be the substance in question .
The pure extractive matter , whether procured from the Bombay or Bengal catechu , is pale , with a faint tinge of redbrown .
It has no perceptible smell ; its taste is slightly astringent ; but it leaves in the mouth , for some time , a sensation of sweetness , stronger than that given by the catechu itself .
Its solution in water is at first yellow-brown ; but it gains a tint of red by exposure to the air .
Its solution in alcohol does not materially change colour in the atmosphere ; and it is of an uniform dull brown .
The extractive matter , whether solid or in solution , was not found to produce any change of colour upon vegetable blues .
It became of a brighter colour by the action of the alkalis ; but it was not precipitated from its solution in water by these bodies , nor by the alkaline earths .
The aqueous solution of it , when mixed with solutions of nitrate of alumine and of muriate of tin , became slightly turbid .
To nitrate of lead , it gave a dense light brown precipitate .
It was not perceptibly acted upon by solution of gelatine ; but , when solution of sulphate of alumine was added to the mixture of the two fluids , a considerable quantity of solid matter , of a light brown colour , was immediately deposited .
To the solution of oxygenated sulphate of iron , it communicated a fine grass-green tint ; and a green precipitate was deposited , which became black by exposure to the air .
It was not precipitated by the mineral acids .
Linen , by being boiled in the strongest solution of the extractive matter , acquired a light red-brown tint .
The liquor became almost colourless ; and , after this , produced very little change in the solution of oxygenated sulphate of iron .
Raw skin , prepared for tanning by being immersed in the strong solution , soon acquired the same kind of tint as the linen .
It united itself to a part of the extractive matter ; but it was not rendered by it insoluble in boiling water .
The solid extractive matter , when exposed to heat , softened , and became darker in its colour , but did not enter into fusion .
At a temperature below that of ignition , it was decompounded .
The volatile products of its decomposition were , carbonic acid , hydrocarbonate , and water holding in solution acetous acid and a little unaltered extractive matter .
There remained a light and very porous charcoal .
In considering the manner in which the catechu is prepared , it would be reasonable to conclude , that different specimens of that substance must differ in some measure in their composition , S58 even in their pure states ; and , for the purposes of commerce , they are often adulterated to a considerable extent , with sand and earthy matter.* In attempting to estimate the composition of the purest catechu , I selected pieces from different specimens , with which I was supplied by the President , and reduced them together into powder ; mixing , however , only those pieces which were from catechu of the same kind .
Two hundred grains of the powder procured in this way , from the catechu of Bombay , afforded by analysis , Grains .
Tannin 109 Peculiar extractive matter -68 Mucilage 1 Residual matter ; chiefly sand and calcareous earth o1 The powder of the Bengal catechu gave , by similar methods of analysis , in 2oo grains , Grains .
Tannin 97 Peculiar extractive matter Mucilage -16 Residual matter ; sand , with a small quantity of calcareous and aluminous earths In examining those parts of the catechu from Bengal which were differently coloured , I found the largest proportion of tannin in the darkest part of the substance ; and most extractive matter in the lightest part .
It is probable that the inequality of composition in this catechu , is owing to its being evaporated One specimen that I examined , of the terra japonica of commerce , furnished , by incineration , of sand and earthy matter ; and another specimen , nearly - .
LIa 259 and formed without much agitation ; in consequence of which , the constituent parts of it that are least soluble , being first precipitated , appear in some measure distinct from the more soluble parts , which assume the solid form at a later period of the process .
From the observations of Mr. KER , * it would appear , that the pale catechu is that most sought after in India ; and it is evidently that which contains most extractive matter .
The extractive matter seems to be the substance that gives to the catechu the peculiar sweetness of taste which follows the impression of astringency ; and it is probably this sweetness of taste which renders it so agreeable to the Hindoos , for the purpose of chewing with the betle-nut .
IV .
EXPERIMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS ON THE ASTRINGENT INFUSIONS OF BARKS , AND OTHER VEGETABLE PRODUCTIONS .
The barks that I examined were furnished me by my friend SAMUEL PURKIS , Esq. of Brentford ; they had been collected in the proper season , and preserved with care .
In making the infusions , I employed the barks in coarse powder ; and , to expedite the solution , a heat of from 0oo to 120 ?
FAHRENHEIT was applied .
The strongest infusions of the barks of the oak , of the Leicester willow , and of the Spanish chesnut , were nearly of the same specific gravity , 1.o5 .
Their tastes were alike , and strongly astringent ; they all reddened litmus-paper ; the infusion of the Spanish chesnut bark producing the highest tint ; and that of the Leicester willow bark the feeblest tint .
Two hundred grains of each of the infusions were submitted M Medical Observations , Vol. V. page 155 .
u6o to evaporation ; and , in this process , the infusion of the oak bark furnished 17 grains of solid matter ; that of the Leicester willow about 16+ grains ; and that of the Spanish chesnut nearly an equal quantity .
The tannin given by these solid matters was , in that from the oak bark infusion , 14 grains ; in that from the willow bark infusion 142 grains ; and in that from the Spanish chesnut bark infusion 13 grains .
The residual substances of the infusions of the Spanish chesnut bark , and of the oak bark , slightly reddened litmus-paper , and precipitated the solutions of tin of a fawn colour , and those of iron black .
The residual matter of the infusion of the willow bark , did not perceptibly change the colour of litmus ; but it precipitated the salts of iron of an olive colour , and rendered turbid the solution of nitrate of alumine .
The solid matters produced by the evaporation of the infusions , gave , by incineration , only a very small quantity of ashes , which could not have been more than T-T of their original weights .
These ashes chiefly consisted of calcareous earth and alkali ; and the quantity was greatest from the infusion of chesnut bark .
The infusions were acted on by the acids , and the pure alkalis , in a manner very similar to the infusion of galls .
With the solutions of carbonated alkalis , they gave dense fawn-coloured precipitates .
They were copiously precipitated by the solutions of litre , of strontia , and of barytes ; and , by lime-water in excess , the infusions of oak and of chesnut bark seemed to be deprived of the whole of the vegetable matter they held in solution .
By being boiled for some time with alumine , lime , and magnesia , they became almost colourless , and lost their power of.6i acting upon gelatine and the salts of iron .
After being heated with carbonate of lime and carbonate of magnesia , they were found deeper coloured than before ; and , though they had lost their power of acting on gelatine , they still gave dense olivecoloured precipitates with the salts of iron .
In all these cases , the earths gained tints of brown , more or less intense .
When the compound of the astringent principles of the infusion of oak bark with lime , procured by means of lime-water , was acted on by sulphuric acid , a solution was obtained , which precipitated gelatine , and contained a portion of the vegetable principles , and a certain quantity of sulphate of lime ; a solid fawn-coloured matter Was likewise formed , which appeared to be sulphate of lime , united to a little tannin and extractive matter.* The solutions were copiously precipitated by solution of albumen .
The precipitates they gave with gelatine were similar in their appearance ; their colour , at first , was a light tinge of brown , but they became very dark by exposure to the air .
Their composition was very nearly similar ; and , judging from the experiments on the quantity of gelatine employed in forming them , the compound of tannin and gelatine from the strongest infusion of oak bark , seems to consist , in the 1oo parts , of.59 parts of M. ME .
RAT GUILLOT proposes a method of procuring pure tannin , ( Annals de Cbirnie , Tome XLI .
p. 325 .
) which consists in precipitating a solution of tan by lime-water , and decomposing it by nitric or muriatic acid .
The solution of the solid matter obtained in this way in alcohol , he considers as a solution of pure tannin but , from the experiments abovementioned , it appears , that it must contain , besides tannin , some of the extractive matter of the bark ; and it may likewise contain salin matter .
gelatine and 41 of tannin ; that fre ; In th infusion of Leicester willow bark , of 7 parts of gelatine and 43 of tannin ; and that from the infusion of Spanish chesnut bark , of 6i parts of gelatine and 9 of tannin .
Two pieces of calf-skin , which weighed when dry 20o grains each , were tanned ; one in the strongest infusion of Leicester willow bark , and the other in the strongest infusion of oak bark .
The process was completed , in both instances , in less than a fortnight ; when the weight of the leather formed by the tannin of the Leicester willow bark was found equal to 161 grains ; and that of the leather formed by the infusion of oak bark was equal to 164 grains .
When piecs of skin were suffered to remain in small quantitis of the infusions of the oak bark , and of the Leicester willow bark , till they were exhausted of their tanning principle , it was found , that though the residual liquors gave olive-coloured pre .
cipitates with the solutions of pha of iron , yet they were scarcely rendered turbid by solutions of muriate of tin ; and there is every reason to suppose , that a portion of their extractive matter had been taken u'p with the tannin by the skin .
I attempted , in different modes , to obtain uncombined gallic acid from the solid matter produced by the evaporation of the barks , but without success .
When portions of this solid matter were exposed to the degree of heat that is required for the production of gallic acid from Aleppo galls , no crystals were formed ; and the fluid that came over gave only a brown colour to the solution of salts of iron , and was found to contain much aetous acid and empyreumatic oil .
When pure water was made to act , in successive portions , upon oak bark in coarsep owder , till all its soluble parts were,8.63 taken up , the quantities of liquor last obtained , though they did not act much upon solution of gelatine , or perceptibly redden litmus-paper , produced a dense black with the solution of sulphate of iron : by evaporation , they furnished a brown matter , of which a part was rendered insoluble in water by the action of the atmosphere ; and the part soluble in water was not in any degree taken up by sulphuric ether ; so that , if it contained gallic acid , it was in a state of intimate union with extractive matter .
Two pieces of calf-skin , which weighed when dry 94 grains each , were slowly tanned ; one by being exposed to a weak infusion of the Leicester willow bark , and the other by being acted upon by a weak infusion of oak bark .
The process was-completed in about three months ; and it was found , that one piece of skin had gained in weight I4 grains , and the other piece about i6 grains .
This increase is proportionally much less than that which took place in the experiment on the process of quick tanning .
The colour of the pieces of leather was deeper than that of the pieces which had been quickly tanned ; and , to judge from the properties of the residual liquors , more of the extractive matters of the barks had been combined with them .
The experiments of Mr. BIGGIN* have shown , that similar barks , when taken from trees at different seasons , differ as to the quantities of tannin they contain : and I have observed , that the proportions of the astringent principles in barks , vary considerably according as their age and size are different ; besides , these proportions are often influenced by accidental circumstances , so that it is extremely difficult to ascertain their distinct relations to each other .
In every astringent bark , the interior white bark ( that is , the part next to the alburnum ) contains the largest quantity of tannin .
The proportion of extractive matter is generally greatest in the middle or coloured part : but the epidermis seldom furnishes either tannin or extractive matter .
The white cortical layers are comparatively most abundant in young trees ; and hence their barks contain , in the same weight , a larger proportion of tannin than the barks of old trees .
In barks of the same kind , but of different ages , which have been cut at the same season , the similar parts contain always very nearly the same quantities of astringent principles ; and the interior layers afford about equal portions of tannin .
An ounce of the white cortical layers of old oak bark , furnished , by lixiviation and subsequent evaporation , o18 grains of solid matter ; and , of this , 72 grains were tannin .
An equal quantity of the white cortical layers of young oak produced 1 grains of solid matter , of which 77 were precipitated by gelatine .
An ounce of the interior part of the bark of the Spanish chesnut , gave 89 grains of solid matter , containing 63 grains of tannin .
The same quantity of the same part of the bark of the Leicester willow , produced 117 grains , of which 79 were tannin .
An ounce of the coloured or external cortical layers from the oak , produced 43 grains of solid matter , of which 19 were tannin .
From the Spanish chesnut , 41 grains , of which 14 were tannin .
And , from the Leicester willow , 34 grains , of which 16 were tannin .
In attempting to ascertain the relative quantities of tannin in the different entire barks , I selected those specimens which appeared similar with regard to the proportions of the external and internal layers , and which were about the average thickness of the barks commonly used in tanning , namely , an inch .
Of these barks , the oak produced , in the quantity of an ounce , 61 grains of matter dissolved by water , of which 29 grains were tannin .
The Spanish chesnut 5 grains , of which 2i were tannin .
And the Leicester willow 71 grains , of which 33 were tannin .
The proportions of these quantities , in respect to the tanning principle , are not very different from those estimated in Mr. BIGGIN'S table.* The residual substances obtained in the different experiments , differed considerably in their properties ; but certain portions of them were , in all instances , rendered insoluble during the process of evaporation .
The residuum of the chesnut bark , as in the instance of the strongest infusion , possessed slightly acid properties ; but more than of its weight consisted of extractive matter .
All the residuums in solution , as in the other cases , were precipitated by muriate of tin ; and , after this precipitation , the clear fluids acted much more feebly than before on the salts of iron ; so that there is great reason for believing , that the power of astringent infusions to precipitate the salts of iron black , or dark coloured , depends partly upon the agency of the extractive matters they contain , as well as upon that of the tanning principle and gallic acid .
In pursuing the experiments upon the different astringent infusions , I examined the infusions of the bark of the elm and of the common willow .
These infusions were acted on by reagents , in a manner exactly similar to the infusions of the other barks : they were precipitated by the acids , by solutions of the alkaline earths , and of the carbonated alkalis ; and they formed , with the caustic alkalis fluids not precipitable by gelatine .
An ounce of the bark of the elm , furnished 13 grains of tannin .
The same quantity of the bark of the conmon willow , gave 11 grains .
The residual matter of the bark of the elm , contained a considerable portion of mucilage ; and that of the bark of the willow , a small quantity of bitter principle .
The strongest infusions of the sumachs from Sicily and Malaga , agree with the infusions of barks , in most of their properties ; but they differ from all the other astringent infusions that have been mentioned , in one respect ; they give dense precipitates with the caustic alkalis .
Mr. PROUST has shown , that sumach contains abundance of sulphate of lime ; and it is pro .
bably to this substance that the peculiar effect is owing .
From an ounce of Sicilian sumach , I obtained 16C5 grains of matter soluble in water , and , of this matter , 78 grains were tannin .
An ounce of Malaga sumach , produced i56 grains of soluble matter , of which 79 appeared to be tannin .
The infusion of Myrobalans* from the East Indies , differed from the other astringent infusions chiefly by this circumstance , that it effervesced with the carbonated alkalis ; and it gave with them a dense precipitate , that was almost immediately redissolved .
After the tannin had been precipitated from it by gelatine , it strongly reddened litmus-paper , and gave a bright black with the solutions of iron .
I expected to be able to procure gallic acid , by distillation , from the Myrobalans ; but in this I was mistaken ; they furnished only a pale yellow fluid , which gave merely a slight olive tinge to solution of sulphate of iron .
Skin was speedily tanned in the infusion of the Myrobalans ; and the appearance of the leather was similar to the appearance of that from galls , The strongest infusions of the teas are very similar , in their agencies upon chemical tests , to the infusions of catechu .
An ounce of Souchong tea , produced 48 grains of tannin .
The same quantity of green tea , gave 41 grains .
Dr. MATON has observed , that very little tannin is found in cinchona , or in the other barks supposed to be possessed of febrifuge properties .
My experiments tend to confirm the observation .
None of the infusions of the strongly bitter vegetable substances that I have examined , give any precipitate to gelatine .
And the infusions of quassia , of gentian , of hops , and of chamomile , are scarcely affected by muriate of tin ; so that they likewise contain very little extractive matter .
In all substances possessed of the astringent taste , there is great reason to suspect the presence of tannin ; it even exists in substances which contain sugar and vegetable acids .
I have found it in abundance in the juice of sloes ; and my friend Mr. POOLE , of Stowey , has detected it in port wine .
V. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS .
Mr. PROuST has supposed , in his Paper upon Tannin and its Species , * that there exist different species of the tanning principle , possessed of different properties , and different powers of acting upon reagents , but all precipitable by gelatine .
This opinion is sufficiently conformable to the facts generally known concerning the nature of the substances which are produced in organised matter ; but it cannot be considered as proved , till the tannin in different vegetables has been examined in its pure or insulated state .
In all the vegetable infusions which have been subjected to experiment , it exists in a state of union with other principles ; and its properties must necessarily be modified by , the peculiar circumstances of its combination .
From the experiments that have been detailed it appears , that the specific agencies of tannin in all the different astringent infusions are the same .
In every instance , it is capable of entering into union with the acids , alkalis , and earths ; and of forming insoluble compounds with gelatine , and with skin .
The infusions of the , barks affect the greater number of reagents in a manner similar to the infusion of galls ; and , that this last fluid is rendered green by the carbonated alkalis , evidently depends upon the large proportion of gallic acid it contains .
The infusion of sumach owes its characteristic property , of being precipitated by the caustic alkalis , to the presence of sulphate of lime ; and , that the solutions of catechu do not copiously precipitate the carbonated alkalis , appears to depend upon their containing tannin in a peculiar state of union with extractive matter , and uncombined with gallic acid or earthy salts .
In making some experiments upon the affinities of the tanning principle , I found that all the earths were capable of attracting it from the alkalis : and , so great is their tendency to combine with it , that , by means of them , the compound of tannin and gelatine may be decomposed without much difficulty ; for , after pure magnesia had been boiled for a few hours with 269 this substance diffused through water , it became of a red-brown colour , and the fluid obtained by filtration produced a distinct precipitate with solution of galls .
The acids have less affinity for tannin than for gelatine ; and , in cases where compounds of the acids and tannin are acted on by solution of gelatine , an equilibrium of affinity is established , in consequence of which , by far the greatest quantity of tannin is carried down in the insoluble combination .
The different neutral salts have , comparatively , feeble powers of attraction for the tanning principle ; but , that the precipitation they occasion in astringent solutions , is not simply owing to the circumstance of their uniting to a portion of the water which held the vegetable substances in solution , is evident from many facts , besides those which have been already stated .
The solutions of alum , and of some other salts which are less soluble in water than tannin , produce , in many astringent infusions , precipitates as copious as the more soluble saline matters ; and sulphate of lime , and other earthy neutral compounds , which are , comparatively speaking , insoluble in water , speedily deprive them of their tanning principle .
From the different facts that have been stated , it is evident that tannin may exist in a state of combination in different substances , in which its presence cannot be made evident by means of solution of gelatine ; and , in this case , to detect its existence , it is necessary to have recourse to the action of the diluted acids .
In considering the relations of the different facts that have been detailed , to the processes of tanning and of leather-making , it will appear sufficiently evident , that when skin is tanned in astringent infusions that contain , as well as tannin , extractive matters , portions of these matters enter , with the tannin , into chemical combination with the skin .
In no case is there any reason to believe that gallic acid is absorbed in this process ; and M. SEGUIN'S ingenious theory of the agency of this substance , in producing the deoxygenation of skin , seems supported by no proofs .
Even in the formation of glue from skin , there is no evidence which ought to induce us to suppose that it loses a portion of oxygen ; and the effect appears to be owing merely to the separation of the gelatine , from the small quantity of albumen with which it was combined in the organised form , by the solvent powers of water .
The different qualities of leather made with the same kind of skin , seem to depend very much upon the different quantities .
of extractive matter it contains .
The leather obtained by means of infusion of galls , is generally found harder , and more liable to crack , than the leather obtained from the infusions of barks ; and , in all cases , it contains a much larger proportion of tannin , and a smaller proportion of extractive matter .
When skin is very slowly tanned in weak solutions of the barks , or of catechu , it combines with a considerable proportion of extractive matter ; and , in these cases , though the increase of weight of the skin is comparatively small , yet it is rendered ; perfectly insoluble in water ; and is found soft , and at the same time strong .
The saturated astringent infusions of barks contain much less extractive matter , in proportion to their tannin , than the weak infusions ; and , when skin is quickly tanned in them , common experience shows that it produces leather less durable than the leather slowly formed .
Besides , in the case of quick tanning by means of infusions of barks , a quantity of vegetable extractive matter is lost to the 871 manufacturer , which might have been made to enter into the composition of his leather .
These observations show , that there is some foundation for the vulgar opinion of workmen , concerning what is technically called the feeding of leather in the slow method of tanning ; and , though the processes of the art may in some cases be protracted for an unnecessary length of time , yet , in general , they appear to have arrived , in consequence of repeated practical experiments , at a degree of perfection which cannot be very far extended by means of any elucidations of theory that have as yet been made known .
On the first view it appears singular that , in those cases of tanning where extractive matter forms a certain portion of the leather , the increase of weight is less than when the skin is combined with pure tannin ; but the fact is easily accounted for , when we consider that the attraction of skin for tannin must be probably weakened by its union with extractive matter ; and , whether we suppose that the tannin and extractive matter enter together into combination with the matter of skin , or unite with separate portions of it , still , in either case , the primary attraction of tannin for skin must be , to a certain extent , diminished .
In examining astringent vegetables in relation to their powers of tanning skin , it is necessary to take into account , not only the quantity they contain of the substance precipitable by gelatine , but likewise the quantity , and the nature , of the extractive matter ; and , in cases of comparison , it is essential to employ infusions of the same degree of concentration .
It is evident , from the experiments detailed in the IIId section , that of all the astringent substances which have been as yet examined , catechu is that which contains the largest proportion of tannin ; and , in supposing , according to the common estimation , that from four to five pounds of common oak bark are required to produce one pound of leather , it appears , from the various synthetical experiments , that about half a pound of catechu would answer the same purpose.* Also , allowing for the difference in the composition of the different kinds of leather , it appears , from the general detail of facts , that one pound of catechu , for the common uses of the tanner , would be nearly equal in value to 2- : pounds of galls , to 7-pounds of the bark of the Leicester willow , to ii pounds of the bark of the Spanish chesnut , to 18 pounds of the bark of the elm , to 21 pounds of the bark of the common willow , and to 3 pounds of sumach .
Various menstruums have been proposed for the purpose of expediting and improving the process of tanning , and , amongst them , lime-water and the solutions of pearl-ash : but , as these two substances form compounds with tannin which are not decomposable by gelatine , it follows that their effects must be highly pernicious ; and there is very little reason to suppose , that any bodies will be found which , at the same time that they increase the solubility of tannin in water , will not likewise diminish its attraction for skin .

