I resumed the enquiry ; I procured small cylindrical cups of agate , of the capacity of about X of a cubic inch each .
They were boiled for some hours in distilled water , and a piece of very white and transparent amianthus that had been treated in the same way was made to connect them together ; they were filled with distilled water , and exposed by means of two platina wires to a current of electricity , from 15o pairs of plates of copper and zinc 4 inches square , made active by means of solution of alum .
After 48 hours the process was examined : paper tinged with litmus plunged into the tube containing the transmitting or positive wire was immediately strongly reddened .
Paper coloured by turmeric introduced into the other tube had its colour much deepened ; the acid matter gave a very slight degree of turbidness to solution of nitrate of silver .
The fluid that affected turmeric retained this property after being strongly boiled ; and it appeared more vivid as the quantity became reduced by evaporation ; carbonate of ammonia was mixed with it , and the whole dried and exposed to a strong heat : a minute quantity of white matter remained , which , as far as my examination could go , had the properties of carbonate of soda .
I compared it with similar minute portions of the pure carbonates of potash and soda .
It was not so deliquescent as the former of these bodies , and it formed a salt with nitric acid , which like nitrate of soda soon attracted moisture from a damp atmosphere , and became flutid .
This result was unexpected , but it was far from convincing me that the substances which"I had obtained were generated .
In a similar process , with glass tubes , carried on exactly under the same circumstances , and for the same time , I obtained a quantity of alkali which must have been more than twenty times greater , but no traces of muriatic acid .
There was much probability that the agate might contain some minute portion of saline matter , not easily detected by chemical analysis , either in combination , or intimate adhesion in its pores .
To determine this , I repeated the experiment a second , a third , and a fourth time .
In the second experiment turbid ness was still produced by solution of nitrate of silver in the tube containing the acid , but it wasless-distinct ; ' in the third process it was barely perceptible : and in the fourth the two fluids remained perfectly clear after the mixture .
The quantity of alkaline matter diminished in every operation ; and in the last process , though the battery had been kept in great activity for three days , the fluid possessed in a very slight degree only the power of acting on paper tinged with turmeric ; but its alkaline property was very sensible to litmus paper slightly reddened , which is a much more delicate test : and after evaporation and the process by carbonate of am:monia , a barely perceptible quantity of fixed alkali was still left .
The acid matter in the other tube was abundant ; its taste was sour ; it smelt like water over which large quantities of nitrous gas have been long kept ; it did not affect solution of muriate of barytes ; and a drop of it placed upon a polished plate of silver left after evaporation a black stain , precisely similar to that produced by extremely diluted nitrous acid .
After these results , I could no longer doubt that some saline matter existing in the agate tubes had been the source of the acid matter capable of precipitating nitrate of silver , and of much of the alkali .
Four additional repetitions of the process , however , convinced me that there was likewise some other cause for the presence of this last substance ; for it 5 continued to appear to the last , in quanttiies sufficiently distinguishable , and apparently equal in every case .
I had used every precaution ; I had included the tubes in glass vessels out of the reach of the circulating air ; all the acting materials had been repeatedly washed with distilled water ; and no part of them in contact with the fluid had been touched by the fingers .
The only substance which I could now conceive capable of furnishing the fixed alkali was the water itself This water appeared pure by the tests of nitrate of silver and muriate of barytes ; but potash and soda , as is well known , rise in small quantities in rapid distillations ; and the New River water , which I made use of , contains animal and vegetable impurities , which it was easy to conceive might furnish neutral salts capable of being carried over in vivid ebullition .
To make the experiment in as refined a form as possible , I procured two hollow cones of pure gold containing about 25 grains of water each , they were filled with distilled water , connected together by a -moistened piece of amianthus which had been used in the former experiments , and exposed to the action of aVOLTAic battery of ioo pairs of plates of copper and zinc of 6 inches square , in which the fluid was a solution of alum and diluted sulphuric acid .
In ten minutes the water in the negative tube had gained the power of giving a slight blue tint to litmus paper : and the water in the positive tube rendered it red .
The process was continued for 14 hours ; the acid increased in quantity during the whole time , and the water became at last very sour to the taste .
The alkaline properties of the fluid in the other tube , on the contrary , remained stationary , and at the end of the time , it .
did not act upon litmus or turmeric paper more than in the first trial : the effect was less vivid after it had been strongly heated for a 6 minute ; but evaporation and the usual process proved that .
some fixed alkali was present .
The acid , as far as its properties .
were examined , agreed with pure nitrous acid having an excess of nitrous gas..re.eed the.d..re I repeated the experiment , and carried on the process for three days ; at the end ; of which time the water in the tube was decomposed:and evaporated to more than one half of its original quantity ; the ; acid was strong , but the alkali in as minute a : portion as in the last experiment .
It acted indeed rather more vividly on the tests , onaccount of the greater diminution of the fluid , but presented , the same results after being heated .
It was now impossible to doubt that the water contained some substance in very minute quantities , capable of causing the appearance of fixed alkali , but which was soon exhausted and the question that immediately presented itself was , Is this substance saline matter carried over in distillation ?
or is it nitrogen gas which exists in minute portions in all water that has been exposed to air , and which , if an element of the fixed alkali , would under the circumstance of the experiment have been soon exhausted , whilst its absorption from the atmosphere would be impeded by the saturation of the water with hydrogen ?
I was much more inclined to the former than to the latter supposition .
I evaporated a quart of the distilled water that I had used , very slowly at a heat below i4o ?
FAHRENHEIT , in a silver still ; a solid matter remained , equal to -y of a grain ; this matter had a saline but metallic taste , and was deliquescent when exposed to air : I could not obtain from it regular crystals ; it did not affect turmeric or litmus , but a part 7 of it , after being heated red , in a silver crucibl , exhibited strong alkaline properties .
It was not possible to make a minute analysis of so small a quantity , but it appeared to me to be principally a mixture of nitrate of soda and nitrate of lead ; and the metallic substance , it is most likely , was furnished by the condensing tube of the common still .
The existence of saline matter in the distilled water being thus distinct , it was easy to determine its operation in the experiment .
I filled the two gold cones with water in the usual manner ; that negatively electrified , soon attained the maximum of its effect upon turmeric paper .
I then introduced into it a very minute portion of the substance obtained by the process of evaporation that has been just described ; in less than two minutes its effects were evident ; ?
and in five minutes the tint of the paper was changed to a bright brown .
I now conceived that by collecting the water obtained in the second process of slow distillation I should be able to carry on the experiment without any appearance of fixed alkali , and the trial proved that I was not mistaken .
Some of this water was introduced into the gold tubes , and the amianthus moistened by it .
After two hours the water in the negative tube produced no effect upon turmeric paper ; it did produce an effect upon litmus , which it required great minuteness of observation to perceive ; but it wholly lost the power by being heated strongly for two or three minutes , so there is every reason for supposing that it was owing to a small quantity of ammon ; a. I made a.similar experiment with a portion of the same water in the tubes of agate that had been so often used , and I had the pleasure of finding the results precisely the same .
To detail any more operations of this kind will be unnecessary ; all the facts prove that the fixed alkali is not generated , but evolved , either from the solid materials employed , or from saline matter in the water .
I have made many experiments in vessels composed of different substances , with the water procured by very slow distillation : and in almost every instance some fixed alkali appeared .
In tubes of wax the alkaline matter was a mixture of soda and potash ; and the acid matter a mixture of sulphuric , muriatic , and nitric acids .
In a tube of resin , the alkaline matter seemed to be principally potash .
A cube of Carrara marble of about an inch , having an aperture in its centre , was placed in a crucible of platina , which was filled as high as the upper surface of the cube with the purified water , the aperture was filled with the same fluid ; the crucible was positively electrified by a strong VOLTAIC power , and a negatively electrified wire introduced into the aperture .
The water soon gained the property of affecting the tint of turmeric ; and fixed alkali and lime .
were both obtained from it : and this effect took place in repeated experiments : the fixed alkali , however , diminished in quantity every time ; and after eleven processes conducted from two to three hours each , disappeared altogether .
The production of lime-water was uniform .
I made a solution of 500 grains of this marble in nitric acid ; I decomposed the mixture by carbonate of ammonia , and I collected and evaporated the fluid part , and decomposed the nitrate of ammonia by heat .
About 4 of a grain of fixed saline matter remained , which had soda for its base .
It was possible that the Carrara marble might have been recently exposed to-sea-water ; I therefore tried , in the same way , a piece of granular marble , which I had myself broken from a rock on one of the highest of the primitive mountains of Donegal .
It afforded fixed alkali by the agency of negative electricity ; .
A piece of argillaceous schist from Cornwall , treated in the same manner , gave the same result ; and serpentine from the Lizard , and grauwacke from North Wales , both afforded soda .
It is probable that there are few stones that do not contain some minute portions of saline matter , which in many Cases may be mechanically diffused through their substance : and it is not difficult to conceive the possibility of this , when we consider that all'our common rocks and strata bear evident marks of having been anciently covered by the sea .
' I was now able to determine distinctly , that the soda procured in glass tubes came principally from the glass , as I had always supposed .
I used the two cones of gold with the purified water and the amianthus ; the process was conducted as usual .
After a quarter of an hour , the negatively electrified tube did not change the colour of turmeric .
I introduced into the top of it a bit of glass ; in a few -minuts the fluid at the surface rendered the tint of the paper of a deep bright brown .
I had never made any experiments , in Which acid matter having the properties of nitrous acid was not produced , and the longer the operation the greater was the quantity that appeared .
Volatile alkali likewise seemed to be always formed in very minute portions , during the first few.minutes in the purified water in the gold cones but the limit to its quantity was soon attained .
It was natural to account for both these appearances , fronithe combination of nascent oxygene and hydrogene respectively ; with the nitrogene of the common air dissolved in the water and Dr. PRIESTLEY ?
'S experiments on the absorption of gases by water ( on this idea ) would furnish an easy explanaton of the causes of the constant production of the acid , and the limited production of the alkali : for hydrogene , during its solution in water , seems to expel nitrogene ; whilst nitrogene and oxygene are capable of co-existing dissolved in that fluid.* To render the investigation more complete , I introduced the two cones of gold with purified water under the receiver of an air pump ; the receiver was exhausted till it contained only , of the original quantity of air ; and then , by means of a convenient apparatus , the tubes were connected with an active VOLTAIC pile of 5o pairs of plates of 4 inches square .
The processs was carried : on for 18 hours , when theresult was examined .
The water in the negative tube produced no effect upon prepared litmus , but that in the positive tube gave it a barely perceptible tinge of red .
An incomparably greater quantity of acid would have been formed in a similar time in the at.mosphere , and the small PI ESTLES Experiments andsObservations , Vol. I. page 59 .
C 1i portion of nitrogene gas remaining in contact with the water , seemed adequate to the effect .
I repeated the experiment under more conclusive circumstances .
I arranged the apparatus as before ; I exhausted the receiver , and filled it with hydrogene gas from a convenient airholder ; I made a second exhaustion , and again introduced hydrogene that had been carefully prepared .
The process was conducted for 24 hours , and at the end of this time neither of the portions of the water altered in the slightest degree the tint of litmus .
It seems evident then that water , chemically pure , is decomposed by electricity into gaseous matter alone , into oxygene and hydrogene .
The cause of its decomposition , and of the other decompositions which have been mentioned , will be hereafter discussed .
III .
On the Agencies of Electricity in the Decomposition of various Compounds .
The experiments that have been detailed on the production of alkali from glass , and on the decomposition of various saline compounds contained in animal and vegetable substances , offered some curious objects of enquiry .
It was evident , that in all changes in which acid and alkaline matter had been present , the acid matter collected in the water round the positively electrified metallic surface ; and the alkaline matter round the negatively electrified metallic surface ; and this principle of action appeared immediately related to one of the first phenomenon observed in the VOLTAIC pile , the decomposition of the muriate of soda attached to the pasteboard ; and to many facts which have been since observed on the separation of the constituent parts of neutrosaline and metallic solutions , particularly those detailed by M. M. HiSINGER and BERZELIUS.* The first experiments that I made immediately with respect to this subject were on the decomposition of solid bodies , insoluble , or difficultly soluble in water .
From the effects of the electrical agency on glass , I expected that various earthy compounds would undergo change under similar circumstances ; and the results of the trials were decided and satisfactory .
Two cups made of compact sulphate of lime , containing about 14 grain-measures of water each , were connected together by fibrous sulphate of lime , which was moistened by pure water : the cups were filled with this fluid ; platina wires from the VOLTAIC battery of ioo pairs of plates of six inches were introduced into them , so that the circuit of electricity was through the fibrous sulphate of lime .
In five minutes the water in the cup connected with the positive wire became acid ; that in the opposite cup strongly tinged turmeric , After an hour the fluids were accurately examined ; when it was found that a pure and saturated solution of lime had been produced in the cup containing the negative wire , which was partially covered with a crust of lime ; and that the other cup was filled with a moderately strong solution of sulphuric acid .
I procured two cubical pieces of crystallized sulphate of strontites , of about an inch ; a hole was drilled in each capable of containing about 8 grains of water : the cubes were plunged in pure water in a platina crucible ; and the level of the flulid preserved a few lines below the surface of the cubes ; two platina wires were introduced into the holes , which were filled with pure Water .
, 'he dise.ngagement of gas , when the wires were connected with the battery of 1oo ; proved that the sulphateof strontites was sufficiently porous to form : a proper conducting chain .
The results were much longer in being obtained in this experiment than in the last : somee time elapsed before a sensible effect could be perceived ; but ' the termination was similar .
In : 30 hours the fluid in the cavity containing the negative wire hadgained the property of precipitating solution of sulphate of potash ; and the presence of sulphuricacid in the other cavity 'was evident from its effect upon solution of muriate of barytes .
I made an experiment upon fluate of ulime under like circumisances ; buti the crystallized fluate not being equaly permeable to moisture , thei two cavities were connected by moist asbestus .
This decomposition ' was ikewise very slow ; but in the course of two days a pretty strong solution of lime was.obtained in one tube ; and an acid ' fluid in the other , which precipitated acetite of lead , and left a spot upon the glass from which it had been evaporated .
Sulphate of barytes , as might be supposed , proved much more difficult of decomposition than either sulphate of strontites or fluate of lime .
I had : made four or five experiments upon it , with the same kind of apparatus that had been applied:to the fluateof lime , before I was able to gain decided -results .
In the last process performed on this substance , two pieces of a large single crystal were hollowed by grinding , so as.to ' contain about five grains of water each ; ,1 42 they were connected by moist asbests , and constantly subjected during four days t the strong action of a battery of 150 pairs of plates of 4 inches square .
As the water diminished , its place was supplied by new quantites , At the condclusion of the exeriment thefluidon the positie side of the apparatus instantly reddened litmus , tasted very sour- , ad gave a distinct precipitate with a solution iof muriate of barytes ; the water on the other side deepened the tincture of turmeric ; dbut diql not render solutipn of sulphate of potash turbid , There was a smaill quatity of white rustjhowever on the sides and the , bottom of the cavity , and .
I conceived that this might be the barytes , which , during the extremely slow decomposition , would have combined with the carbonic acid of the atmosphere .
To ascertain if this had been the case , I iitroduced into the cavity a drop of diluted ; muriatic acid ; a slight effrvescence appeared , and the fluic obtained occsioned a distinct white cloudiness in solution of sulphate of soda .
: In all these cases the constituent parts of the bodies newly arrangd by the effects of electricity existed in considerable qpantities , and exposed on alarge surface to its action .
I had great reason to believe , however , from the trials with distilled : water in differentvessels , that very minute portions of acid and alkaline matter might be disengaged by this agency from ; solid combinations , principally consisting of the pure earths._ This part of the investigation was easily elucidated , .
For a purpose of geological enquiry , which on a future , occasion I shall have the honour of laying before the Society , I had made a careful analysis of a specimen of fine grainedbasalt from Port Rush in the county of Antrim , by means of 1-5 , fusion with boracic acid : it had afforded in loo parts 3 : parts of soda , and nearly ja part of muriatic acid , with a5 parts of lime .
This stone appeared to me very well fitted for the purpose of experiment : cavities were drilled in two pieces , properly shaped ; they contained about 12 grains of water each ; they were connected by moistenedamianthus , and the process conducted as usual with a power of 5o pairs of plates .
At the end of ten hours the result was examined with care .
The fluid that had been positively electrified had the strong smell of oxymuriatic acid , and copiously precipitated nitrate of silver ; the other portion of fluid affected turmeric , and left by evaporation a substance which seemed to be a mixture of lime and soda , A part of a specimen of compact zeolite , from the Giant 's Causeway , which by analysis had given 7 parts in loo of soda , had a small cavity made in it ; it was immerged in pure water in a crucible of platina , and electrified in the same manner as the cube of Carrara marble , mentioned in page g. In less than two minutes the water in the cavity had gained the property of changing the colour of turmeric ; and in half an hour the solution was disagreeably alkaline to the taste .
The matter dissolved proved to be soda and lime .
Lepidolite , treated in the same way , gave potash .
A piece of vitreous lava , from Etna , gave alkaline matter , which seemed to be a mixture of soda , potash , and lime .
As in these trials the object was merely to ascertain the general fact of decomposition , the process was never conducted for a sufficient time to develope a quantity of alkaline matter capable of being conveniently weighed , and of course any loss of weight of the substance could not be determined .
I thought it right , however , to make one experiment of this kind , for the sake of removing every possibility of doubt on the source of the different products ; and I selected for this purpose glass , as a substance apparently insoluble in water , and not likely to afford in any way erroneous results .
The balance that I employed was made for the Royal Institution , by Mr. FIDDLER , after the model of that belonging to the Royal Society ; it turns readily with of a grain when loaded with loo grains on each side ; a glass tube with a platina wire attached , weighing 84 grains -g8 was connected with an agate cup , by amianthus ; they were filled with purified water , and electrified by a power from 15o pairs of plates , in such a way that the platina in the glass tube was negative .
The process was continued for 4 days , when the water was found alkaline .
It gave by evaporation and exposure to a heat of about 40o0 FAHRENHEIT , soda mixed with a white powder insoluble in acids , the whole weight of which was -36 of a grain .
The glass tube carefully cleaned and dried weighed 84 grains , i- .
The difference between the loss of weight of the tube and the weight of the products in the water may be easily explained : some minute detached particles of amianthus were present , and the soda must have contained water , a substance which it is probably perfectly free from in glass .
Having obtained such results with regard to the disengagement of the saline parts of bodies insoluble in water , I made a number of experiments on soluble compounds ; their decomposition was always much more rapid , and the phanomena perfectly distinct .
In these processes I employed the agate cups with platina wires , connected by amianthus moistened in pure water ; the solutions were introduced into the ups , and the electrifying power applied from batteries of,5 pairs of plates , in the usual way .
A diluted solution of sulphate of potash treated in this manner , produced in four hours at the negative wire a weak lixivium of potash ; and a solution of sulphuric acid at the positive wire .
The phenomena were similar when sulphate of soda , nitrate of potash , nitrate of barytes , sulphate of ammonia , phosphate of soda , succinate oxalate , and benzoate of ammonia , and alum were used .
The acids in a certain time collected in the tube containing the positive wire , and the alkalies and earths in that containing the negative wire .
Solutions of the muriatic salts , decomposed in the same way , uniformly gave oxymuriatic acid on the positive side .
When compatible mixtures of neutrosaline solutions containing the common mineral acids were used , the different acids and the different bases seemed to separate together in a mixed state , without any respect to the orders of affinity , When metallic solutions were employed , metallic crystals or depositions were formed , as in common GALVANIC experiments , on the negative wire , and oxide was likewise deposited round it ; and a great excess of acid was soon found in the opposite cup .
With solutions of iron , zinc , and tin , this effect took place , as well as with the more oxidable metals : when muriate of iron was used , the black substance deposited upon the wire was magnetic , and dissolved with effervescence in muriatic acid ; and when sulphate of zinc was used , a gray powder possessed of the metallic lustre , and likewise soluble with effervescence , appeared ; and in all cases acid in excess was exhibited on the positive side .
Strong or saturated saline solutions , as might have been expected , afforded indications of the progress of decomposition much more rapidly than weak ones ; but the smallest proportion of neutrosaline matter seemed to be acted on with energy .
A very simple experiment demonstrates this last principle , If a piece of paper tinged with turmeric , is plunged into pure water in a proper circuit , in contact with the negative point , the very minute quantity of saline compound contained in the paper , affords alkaline matter sufficient to give it instantly a brown tint near its point of contact : and acid in the same manner is immediately developed from litmus paper , at the positive surface .
I made several experiments , with the view of ascertaining whether , in the decompositions by electricity , the separation of the constituent parts was complete from the last portions of the compound ; and whenever the results were distinct , this evidently appeared to be the case .
I shall describe one of the most conclusive of the experiments : a very weak solution of sulphate of potash , containing eo parts water and one part saturated solution , at 64 ?
, was electrified in the two agate cups by the power of 50 pairs of plates for three days : the connecting amianthus , which had been moistened with pure water , was removed , washed with pure water , and again applied , twice every day ; by this precaution the presence of any neutral salt that might adhere to it , and disturb the results , was prevented .
The alkali obtained in this process in the solution had the properties of pure potash ; and when it had been saturated with nitric acid it gave no turbidness by mixture with solution of muriate of D9 ia :barytes : the acid matter exposed to a strong heat evaporated without leaving any residuum .
IV .
On the Transfer of certain of the constituent Parts of Bodies by the Action of Electricity .
M. GAUTHEROT has stated , * that in a single GALVANIC circle of zinc , silver , and water , in an active state , the oxide of zinc formed is attracted by the silver ; t and M. M. HISINGER and BERZELIUS detail an account of an experiment , :in which solution of muriate of lime being placed in the positive part of a siphon , electrified by wires from a VOLTAIC pile , and distilled water in the negative part , lime appeared in the distilled water .
These facts rendered it probable , that the saline elements evolved in decompositions by electricity were capable of being transferred from one electrified surface to another , according to their usual order of arrangement ; but to demonstrate this clearly , new researches were wanting .
I connected one of the cups of sulphate of lime , mentioned page 13 , with a cup of agate by asbestus ; and , filling them with purified water , made the platina wire in the cup of sulphate of lime transmit the electricity from a power of oo ; a wire in the agate cup received it .
In about four hours a strong solution of lime was found in the agate cup , and sulphuric acid in the cup of sulphate of lime .
By reversing the order , and carrying on the process for a similar time , the sulphuric acid appeared in the agate cup , and the solution of lime on the opposite side .
Many trials were made with other saline substances , with analogous results .
When the compounds of the strong mineral acids with alkaline or alkaline-earthy bases , were introduced into one tube of glass , distilled water connected by amianthus being in another tube , both connected by wires of platina in the VOLTAIC arrangement , the base always passed into the distilled water when it was negative , and the acid when it was positive .
The metals and the metallic oxides passed towards the negative surface like the alkalies , and collected round it .
In a case in which solultion of nitrate of silver was used on the positive side , and distilled water on the negative , silver appeared on the whole of the transmitting amianthus , so as to cover it with a thin metallic film .
The time required for these transmissions ( the quantity and intensity of the electricity , and other circumstances remaining the same ) seemed to be in some proportion as the length of the intermediate volume of water .
Thus when with the power of 1 oo , sulphate of potash was on the negative side , and distilled water on the positive side , the distance between the wires being only an inch , sulphuric acid , in sufficient quantity to be very manifest , was found in the water in less than five minutes : but when the tubes were connected by an intermediate vessel of pure water , so as to make the circuit 8 inches , 14 hours were required to produce the same effect .
To ascertain whether the contact of the saline solution with a metallic surface was necessary for the decomposition and transfer , I introduced purified water into two glass tubes ; a vessel containing solution of muriate of potash was connected with them respectively by amianthus ; and the arrangement -was made in such a way , that the level of both the portions 21 of purified water was higher than the level of the saline solution .
In this case , the saline matter was distant from each of the wires at least 3 of an inch ; yet alkaline matter soon appeared in one tube , and acid matter in the other : and in 16 hours moderately strong solutions of potash , and of muriatic acid had been formed .
In this case of electrical transfer or attraction , the acid and alkaline matter seemed to be perfectly pure ; and I am inclined to believe that this is uniformly the case in all experiments carefully made .
One of the instances in which I conceived acid most likely to be present , was in the transfer of magnesia from sulphate of magnesia in the positive tube , to distilled water in the negative tube .
I examined the case , taking care that the distilled water was never upon a lower level than the saline solution : the process was continued for some hours , till a considerable quantity of magnesia had appeared .
The connecting amianthus was removed , and muriatic acid poured into the tube : the saturated solution did not precipitate solution of muriate of barytes .
I endeavoured to ascertain the progress of the transfer , and the course of the acid or alkaline matter in these decompositions , by using solutions of litmus and turmeric , and papers coloured by these substances ; and these trials led to the knowledge of some singular and unexpected circumstances .
Two tubes , one containing distilled water , the other solution of sulphate of potash , were each connected by amianthus xWith a small oz. measure filled with distilled water tinged by litmus : the saline solution was negatively electrified ; and as it wras natural to suppose , that the sulphuric acid in passing through the water to the positive side would redden the litmus in its course , some slips of moistened paper tinged with litmus were placed above and below the pieces of amianthus , directly in the circuit .
The progress of the experiment was minutely observed ; the first effect of reddening took place immediately above the positive surface , where I had least expected it ; the red tint slowly diffused itself from the positive side to the middle of the vessel , but no redness appeared above the amianthus , or about it , on the negative side , and though it had been constantly transmitting sulphuric acid , it remained unaffected to the last .
The order of the experiment was changed , and the saline solution placed on the positive side ; a solution and papers tinged with turmeric being substituted for those tinged with litmus .
The effect was precisely analogous ; the turmeric became brown first , near the negative wire , and no change took place in the intermediate vessel near the positive wire .
In another process , the two glass tubes were filled with solution of muriate of soda , and the intermediate vessel with solution of sulphate of silver ; paper tinged with turmeric was placed on the positive side , and paper tinged with litmus on the negative side ; as soon as the electrical circuit was complete , soda began to appear in the negative tube , and oxymuriatic acid in the positive tube ; and the alternate products were exhibited passing into the solution of sulphate of silver , the muriatic acid occasioning a dense heavy precipitate , and the soda a more diffused anda lighter one ; but neither the turmeric transmitting the alkali , nor the litmeus transmitting the acid , had their tints in the slightest degree altered .
V On the Passage of Acids , Alkalies , and other Substances -through various attracting chemical Menstrua , by Means of Electricity .
As acid and alkaline substances during the time of their electrical transfer passed through water containing vegetable colours without affecting them , or apparently combining with them , it immediately became an object of enquiry , whether they would not likewise pass through chemical menstrua , having stronger attractions for them ; and it seemed reasonable to suppose , that the same power which destroyed elective affinity in the vicinity of the metallic points , would likewise destroyit , or suspend its operation , throughout the whole of the circuit .
An arrangement was made , of the same vessels and apparatus employed in the experiment on the solution of muriate of soda and sulphate of silver , page 23 .
Solution of sulphate of potash was placed in contact with the negatively electrified point , pure water was placed in contact with the positively electrified point , and a weak solution of ammonia was made the middle link of the conducting chain ; so that no sulphuric acid could pass to the positive point in the distilled water , without passing through the solution of ammonia .
The power of 150 was used : in less than five minutes it was found , by means of litmus paper , that acid was collecting round the positive point ; in half an hour , the result was sufficiently distinct for accurate examination .
The water was sour to the taste , and precipitated solution of nitrate of barytes .
Similar experiments were made with solution of lime ; and 34 weak solutions of potash and soda , and the results were analogous .
With strong solutions of potash and soda a much longer time was required for the exhibition of the acid ; but even with the most saturated alkaline lixivium , it always appeared in a certain period .
Muriatic acid , from muriate of soda , and nitric acid from nitrate of potash , were transmitted through concentrated alkaline menstrua , under similar circumstances .
When distilled water was placed in the negative part of the circuit , and a solution of sulphuric , muriatic , or nitric acid , in the middle , and any neutral salt with a base of lime , soda , potash , ammonia , or magnesia , in the positive part , the alkaline matter was transmitted through the acid matter to the negative surface , with similar circumstances to those occurring during the passage of the acid through the alkaline menstrua ; and the less concentrated the solution , the greater seemed to be the facility of transmission .
I tried in this way muriate of lime with sulphuric acid , nitrate of potash with muriatic acid , sulphate of soda with muriatic acid , and muriate of magnesia with sulphuric acid ; I employed the power of 150 ; and in less than 48 hours , I gained in all these cases decided results ; and magnesia came over like the rest .
Strontites and barytes passed , like the other alkaline substances , readily through muriatic and nitric acids ; and , vice versa , these acids passed with facility through aqueous solutions of barytes and strontites ; but in experiments in which it was attempted to pass sulphuric acid through the same menstrua , or to pass barytes or strontites through this acid , the results were very different .
When solution of sulphate of potash was in the negative part of the circuit , distilled water in the positive part , and saturated solution of barytes in the middle , no sensible quantity of sulphuric acid existed in the distilled water after 3o hours , the power of 150 being used ; after four days , sulphuric acid appeared , but the quantity was extremely minute ; much sulphate of barytes had formed in the intermediate vessel ; the solution of barytes was so weak as barely to tinge litmus ; and a thick film of carbonate of barytes had formed on the surface of the fluid .
With solution of strontites the result was very analogous , but the sulphuric acid was sensible in three days .
When solution of muriate of barytes was made positive by the power of 50o , concentrated sulphuric acid intermediate , and distilled water negative .
No barytes appeared in the dis .
tilled water , when the experiment had been carried on for four days ; but much oxymuriatic acid had formed in the positive vessel ; and much sulphate of barytes had been deposited in the sulphuric acid .
Such of the metallic oxides as were made subjects of experiment passed through acid solutions from the positive to the negative side , but the effect was much longer in taking place than in the instances of the transition of alkaline matter .
When solution of green sulphate of iron was made positive , solution of muriatic acid intermediate , and water negative , in the usual arrangement , green oxide of iron began to appear in , about ten hours upon the negative connecting amianthus , and in three days a considerable portion had been deposited in the tube .
Analogous results were obtained with sulphate of copper , nitrate of lead , and nitromuriate of tin .
I made several experiments on the transition of alkaline and acid matter through different neutrosaline solutions , and the results were such as might well have been anticipated .
When solution of muriate of barytes was negative , solution of sulphate of potash intermediate , and pure water positive , the power being from 150 , sulphuric acid appeared in about five minutes in the distilled water ; and in two hours the muriatic acid was likewise very evident .
When solution of sulphate of potash was positive , solution of muriate of barytes intermediate , and distilled water negative , the barytes appeared in the water in a few minutes ; the potash from the more remote part of the chain was nearly an hour in accumulating , so as to be sensible .
When the solution of muriate of barytes was positive , th solution of sulphate of potash intermediate , and distilled water negative , the potash soon appeared in the distilled water ; a copious precipitation of sulphate of barytes formed if thod middle vessel ; but after ten hours no barytes had passed into the water .
When solution of sulphate of silver was interposed between solution of muriate of barytes on the negative side , and pure water on the positive side , sulphuric acid alone passed into the distilled water ; and there was a copious precipitation in the solution of sulphate of silver .
This process was carried on for ten hours .
I tried several of these experiments of transition upon vegetable and animal substances with perfect success .
The saline matter exposed in contact with the metal , and that existing in the vegetable or animal substances , both underwent decomposition and transfer ; and the time of the appearance of the different products at the extremities of the circuit was governed by the degree of their vicinity .
Thus , when a fresh leaf-stalk of the polyanthus , about 9 inches long , was made to connect a positively electrified tube containing solution of nitrate of strontites , and a negatively electrifiedtube containing pure water .
The water soon became green , and gave indications of alkaline properties , and free nitric acid was rapidly separated in the positive tube .
After ten minutes , the alkaline matter was examined ; it consisted of potash and lime , and as yet no strontites had been carried into it : for the precipitate it gave with sulphuric acid readily dissolved in muriatic acid .
In half an-hour strontites , however , appeared ; and in four hours it formed a very abundant ingredient of the solution .
A piece of muscular flesh of beef , of about -3 inches in length and half an inch in thickness , was treated in the same way as the medium of communication between muriate of barytes and distilled water .
The first products were soda , ammonia , and lime ; and after an hour and a quarter , the barytes was very evident .
There was much free oxymuriatic acid in the positively electrified tube , but no particle of muriatic acid had passed into the negative tube , either from the muriatic solution or from the muscular fibre .
VI .
Some general Observations on these Phenomena , and on the Mode of Decomposition and Transition .
It will be a general expression of the facts that have been detailed , relating to the changes and transitions by electricity , in common philosophical language , to say , that hydrogene , the alkaline substances , the metals , and certain metallic oxides , are attracted by negatively electrified metallic surfaces , and repelled by positively electrified metallic surfaces ; and contrariwise , that oxygene and acid substances are attracted by positively electrified metallic surfaces , and repelled by negatively electrified metallic surfaces ; and these attractive and repulsive forces are sufficiently energetic to destroy or suspend the usual operation of elective affinity .
It is very natura:l to suppose , that the repellent and attractive energies are communicated from one particle to another particle of the same kind , so as to establish a conducting chain in the fluid ; and that the locomotion takes place in consequence ; and that this is really the case seems to be shown by many facts .
Thus , in all the instances in which I examined alkaline solutions through which acids had been transmitted , I always found acid in them whenever any acid matter remained at the original source .
In time , by the attractive power of the positive surface , the decomposition and transfer undoubtedly become complete ; but this does not affect the conclusion .
In the cases of the separation of the constituents of water , and of solutions of neutral salts forming the whole of the chain , there may possibly be a succession of decompositions and recompositions throughout the fluid .
And this idea is strengthened by the experiments on the attempt to pass barytes through sulphuric acid , and muriatic acid through solution of sulphate of silver , in which , as insoluble compounds are formed and carried out of the sphere of the electrical action , the power of transfer is destroyed .
A similar conclusion might likewise be drawn from many other instances .
Magnesia and the metallic oxides , as I have already mentioned , will pass along moist amianthus from the positive to the negative surface ; but if a vessel of pure water be interposed , they do not reach the negative vessel , but sink to the bottom .
29 These experiments I have very often made , and the results are perfectly conclusive ; and in the case , page 26 , in which sulphuric acid seemed to pass in small quantities through very weak solutions of strontites and barytes , I have no doubt but that it was carried through by means of a thin stratum of pure water , where the solution had been decomposed at the surface by carbonic acid ; for in an experiment similar to these in which the film of carbonate of barytes was often removed and the fluid agitated , no particle of sulphuric acid appeared in the positive part of the chain .
It is easy to explain , from the general phxnomena of decomposition and transfer , the mode in which oxygene and hydrogene are separately evolved from water .
The oxygene of a portion of water is attracted by the positive surface , at the same time that the other constituent part , the hydrogene is repelled by it ; and the opposite process takes place at the negative surface ; and in the middle or neutral point of the circuit , whether there be a series of decompositions and recompositions , or whether the particles from the extreme points only are active , there must be a new combination of the repelled matter : and the case is analogous to that of two portions of muriate of soda separated by distilled water ; muriatic acid is repelled from the negative side , and soda from the positive side , and muriate of soda is composed in the middle vessel .
These facts seem fully to invalidate the conjectures of M. RITTER , and some other philosophers , with regard to the elementary nature of water , and perfectly to confirm the great discovery of Mr. CAVENDISH .
M. RITTER conceived that he had procured oxygene from water without hydrogene , by making sulphuric acid the medium of communication at the negative surface ; but in this case , 0o sulphur is deposited , and the oxygene from the acid , and the hydrogene from the water are respectively repelled ; and a new combination produced .
I have attempted some of the experiments of decomposition and transfer , by means of common electricity , making use of a powerful electrical machine of Mr. NAIRNE'S construction , belonging to the Royal Institution , of which the cylinder is I5 inches in diameter , and 2 feet long .
With the same apparatus as that employed for decompositions by the VOLTAIC battery , no perceptible effect was produced by passing a strong current of electricity silently for four hours through solution of sulphate of potash .
But by employing fine platina points of ~ of an inch in diameter , cemented in glass tubes in the manner contrived by Dr. WoOLLAsToN , *and bringing them near each other , in vessels containing from 3 to 4 grains of the solution , and connected by moist asbestus , potash appeared in less than two hours round the negatively electrified point , and sulphuric acid round the positive point .
In a similar experiment sulphuric acid was transferred through moist asbestus into water ; so that there can be no doubt , that the principle of action is the same in common and the VOLTAIC electricity.+ VII .
On the general Principles of the chemical Changes produced by Electricity The experiments of Mr. BENNET had shown , that many bodies brought into contact and afterwards separated , exhibited opposite states of electricity ; but it is to the investigations of VOLTA that a clear developement of the fact is owing ; he has distinctly shown it in the case of copper and zinc , and other metallic combinations ; and has supposed that it also takes place with regard to metals and fluids .
In a series of experiments made in i8oi , * on the construction of electrical combinations by means of alternations of single metallic plates , and different strata of fluids , I observed that when acid and alkaline solutions were employed as eleinents of these instruments , the alkaline solutions always received the electricity from the metal , and the acid always transmitted it to the metal ; thus , in an arrangement of which the elements were tin , water , and solution of potash , the circulation of the electricity was from the water to the tin , and from the tin to the solution of potash ; but in an arrangement composed of weak nitric acid , water , and tin ; the order was from the acid to the tin , and from the tin to the water .
These principles seem to bear an immediate relation to the general phenomenon of decomposition and transference , which have been the subject of the preceding details .
portion of oxygene and nitrogene gases : but neither of the foreign products , the nitrogene gas in the one case and the nitrogene and oxygene gases in the other , formed as much as I part of the volume of the gases ; and there is every reason to suppose that they were derived from the extrication of common air , which had been dissolved in the water .
This result , which when I first obtained it in 1803 , appeared very obscure , is now easily explained ; the alternate products must have been evolved at the points of the dissipation of the electricity .
In the simplest case of electrical action , the alkali which receives electricity from the metal would necessarily , on being separated from it , appear positive ; whilst the acid under similar circumstances would be negative ; and these bodies having respectively with regard to the metals , that which may be called a positive and a negative electrical energy , in their repellent and attractive functions seem to be governed by laws the same as the common laws of electrical attraction and repulsion .
The body possessing the positive energy being repelled by positively electrified surfaces , and attracted by negatively electrical surfaces ; and the body possessing the negative energy following the contrary order .
I have made a number of experiments with the view of elucidating this idea , and of extending its application ; and in all cases they have tended to confirm the analogy in a remarkable manner .
Well burned charcoal water and nitric acid , the same substance water and solution of soda , made respectively elements of different electrical combinations , became distinctly active when go alternations were put together : the positive energy being exhibited on the side of the alkali , and the negative on that of the acid .
Arrangements of plates of zinc , pieces of moistened pasteboard , and moistened quicklime , to the number of 40 series , likewise formed a weak electrical pile , the effect of the lime being similar to that of an alkali , but the power was soon lost .
I endeavoured , by means of very delicate instruments , to ascertain the electrical states of single insulated acid and alkaline solutions , after their contact with metals ; and for this purpose I employed at different times the condensing electrometer of Mr. CUTHBERTSON'S construction , Mr. CAVALLO'S multiplier , and a very sensible electrical balance , on the principle of torsion , adopted by M. COULOMB ; but the effects 'were unsatisfactory , the circumstances of evaporation , and of chemical action , and the adherence of the solutions to the surfaces of the metals employed , in most cases , prevented any distinct re o result , or rendered the source of the electricity doubtful .
I shall not enter into any details of these processes , or attempt to draw conclusions from capricious and uncertain appearances , which , as we shall immediately see , may be fully deduced from clear and distinct ones .
The alkaline and acid substances capable of existing in the dry and solid form , give by contact with the metals exceedingly sensible electricities , which require for their exhibition the gold leaf electrometer only with the small condensing plate .
When oxalic , succinic , benzoic or boracic acid , perfectly dry , either in powder or crystals , were touched upon an extended surface with a plate of copper insulated by a glass handle , the copper was found positive , the acid negative .
In favourable weather , and when the electrometer was in perfect condition , one contact of the metal was sufficient to produce a sensible charge ; but seldom more than five or six were required .
Other metals , zinc , and tin for instance were tried with the same effect .
And the metal received the positive charge , apparently to the same extent , whether the acid was insulated upon glass , or connected with the ground .
The solid acid of phosphorus , which had been strongly ignited , and most carefully excluded from the contact of air , rendered the insulated plate of zinc positive by four contacts ; but after exposure to the atmosphere for a few minutes it wholly lost this power .
When metallic plates were made to touch dry lime , strontites , or magnesia , the metal became negative ; the effect was exceedingly distinct , a single contact upon a large surface being sufficient to communicate a considerable charge .
For these experiments the earths were carefully prepared ; they were in powder , and had been kept for several days in glass bottles before they were used : it is essential to the success of the process that they be of the temperature of the atmosphere .
In some experiments which I made upon them when cooling , after having been ignited ; they appeared strongly electrical , and rendered the conductors brought in contact with them positive .
I made several experiments in a similar manner on the effects of the contact of potash and soda with the metals .
Potash in no instance afforded a satisfactory result ; its powerful attraction for water presents an obstacle probably unsurmountable to the success of any trials made in the free atmosphere .
Soda , in the only case in which electricity was exhibited , affected the metal in the .
same way as lime , strontites , and magnesia .
Upon this occasion the soda had been prepared with great care , exposed in a platina crucible for nearly an hour in a red heat , and suffered to cool in the crucible inverted over mercury ; when cool it was immediately removed , and the contact made with a plate of zinc : the experiment was performed in the open air ; the weather was peculiarly dry , the thermometer stood at e8 ?
FAHRENhEIT , and the barometer at 30.2 inches ; six contacts gave a charge to the condensing electrometer in the first trial ; in the second ten were required to produce a similar effect ; and after this , F though two minutes only had elapsed , no farther result could be obtained .
In the decomposition of sulphuric acid by VoLTAIC electricity the sulphur separates on the negative side .
The experiments of various electricians prove , that by the friction of sulphur and metals , the sulphur becomes positive and the metals negative ; the same thing I find happens from the contact of an unexited cake of sulphur and insulated metallic plates .
Mr. WILKEhas stated an exception to lead , as rendering sulphur negative by its friction .
The results that I have obtained with lead , in trials very carefully made , are the same as those with other metals.* Sulphur , by being rubbed or struck against newly-polished lead , always became positive .
Mr. WILKE perhaps was misled by using tarnished lead : sulphur , I find , rubbed against litharge , or lead the surface of which has been long exposed to air , becomes negative ; and this exception being removed , all the facts on the subject are confirmations of the general principle.t On the general principle , oxygene and hydrogene ought to possess , with regard to the metals respectively , the negative and positive energy .
This I have not been able to prove by direct experirrents of contact ; but the idea is confirmed by the agency of their compounds ; thus I have found that solution of sulphuretted hydrogene in water acts in the electrical apparatus composed of single plates and different strata of fluids , in the same manner as alkaline solutions ; and that solution of oxymuriatic acid is more powerful in similar arrangements than solutions of muriatic acid of a higher degree of concentration ; and in both these cases , it is impossible to conceive the combined hydrogene and oxygene inactive .
The inference likewise is fully warranted by the case of the solutions of alkaline hydroguretted sulphurets , which consisting principally of alkali and sulphur together in union with water , exhibit the positive energy with regard to the metals in a very high degree .
In the series of experiments on VOLTAIC arrangements constructed with single plates abovementioned , I found the solutions of hydroguretted sulphurets .
in general much more active than alkaline solutions , and particularly active with copper , silver , and lead .
And in an experiment that I made on .
a combination of copper , iron , and hydroguretted sulphurets of potash , in 1802 , I found that the positive energy of the hydroguretted sulphurets with regard to the copper was sufficient to overpower that of the iron ; so that the electricity did not circulate from the copper to the iron , and from the iron to the fluid , as in common cases , but from the copper to the hydroguretted sulphuret , and from the hydroguretted sulphuret to the iron .
All these details afford the strongest confirmation of the : $7 principle .
It may be considered almost as a mere arrangement.of facts ; and with some extensions it seems capable of being generally applied .
Bodies possessing opposite electrical energies with regard to one and the same body , we might fairly conclude would likewise possess them with regard to each other .
This I have found by experiment is the case with lime and oxalic acid .
A dry piece of lime , made from a very pure compact secondary limestone , and of such a form as to present a large smooth surface , became positively electrical by repeated contacts with.crystals of oxalic acid : and these crystals placed upon the top of a condensing electrometer , and repeatedly touched by the lime , which after each contact was freed from its charge , rendered the gold leaves negatively electrical .
The tendency of the mere contacts of the acid and alkali with the metal would be to produce opposite effects to those exhibited , so that their mutual agency must have been very energetic .
It will not certainly be a remote analogy to consider the other acid and alkaline substances generally , and oxygene and hydrogene as possessing similar electrical relations ; and in the decompositions and changes presented by the effects of electricity , the different bodies naturally possessed of chemical affinities appear incapable of combining , or of remaining in combination , when placed in a state of electricity different from their natural order .
Thus , as we have seen , the acids in the positive part of the circuit , separate themselves from alkalies , oxygene from hydrogene , and so on ; and metals on the negative side , do not unite to oxygene , and acids do not remain in union with their oxides ; and in this Way the attractive and repellent agencies seem to be communicated from the metallic surfaces throughout the whole of the menstruum .
VIII .
On the Relations between the electrical Energies of Bodies , and their chemical Affinities .
As the chemical attraction between two bodies seems to be destroyed by giving one of them an electrical state different from that which it : naturally possesses ; that is , by bringing it artificially into a state similar to the other , so it may be increased by exalting its natural energy .
Thus , whilst zinc , one of the most oxidable of the metals , is incapable of combining with oxygene when negatively electrified in the circuit , even by a feeble power ; silver , one of the least oxidable , easily unites to it when positively electrified ; and the same thing might be said of other metals .
Amongst the substances that combine chemically , all those , the electrical energies of which are well known , exhibit opposite states ; thus , copper and zinc , gold and quicksilver , sulphur and the metals , the acid and alkaline substances , afford apposite instances ; and supposing perfect freedom of motion in their particles or elementary matter , they ought , according to the principles laid down , to attract each other in consequence of their electrical powers .
In the present state of our knowledge , it would be useless to attempt to speculate on the remote cause of the electrical energy , or the reason why different bodies , after being brought into contact , should be found differently electrified ; its relation to chemical affinity is , however , sufficiently evident .
May it not be identical with it , and an essential property of matter ?
The coated glass plates of BECCARIA strongly adhere to each other when oppositely charged , and retain their charges on being separated .
This fact affords a distinct analogy to the subject ; different particles in combining must still be supposed to preserve their peculiar states of energy .
In the present early stage of the investigation , it would be improper to place unbounded confidence in this hypothesis ; but it seems naturally to arise from the facts , and to coincide with the laws of affinity , so ably developed by modern chemists ; and the general application of it may be easily made .
Supposing two bodies , the particles of which are in different electrical states , and those states sufficiently exalted to give them an attractive force superior to the power of aggregation , a combination would take place which would be more or less intense according as the energies were more or less perfectly balanced ; and the change of properties would be correspondently proportional .
This would be the simplest case of chemical union .
But different substances have different degrees of the same electrical energy in relation to the same body : thus the different acids and alkalies are possessed of different energies with regard to the same metal ; sulphuric acid , for instance , is more powerful with lead than muriatic acid , and solution of potash is more active with tin than solution of soda .
Such bodies likewise may be in the same state or repellent with regard to each other , as apparently happens in the cases just mentioned ; or they may be neutral ; or they may be in oppositeor attracting states , which last seems to be the condition of sulphur and alkalies that have the same kind of energy with regard to metals , When two bodies repellent of each other act upon the same body with different degrees of the same electrical attracting energy , the combination would be determined by the degree ; and the substance possessing the weakest energy would be repelled ; and this principle would afford an expression of the'causes of elective affinity , and the decompositions produced in consequence .
Or where the bodies having different degrees of the same energy , with regard to the third body , had likewise different energies with regard to each other , there might be such a balance of attractive and repellent powers as to produce a triple compound ; and by the extension of this reasoning , complicated chemical union may be easily explained .
Numerical illustrations of these notions might be made without difficulty , and they might be applied to all cases of chemical action ; but in the present state of the enquiry , a great extension of this hypothetical part of the subject would be premature .
The general idea will , however , afford an easy explanation of the influence of affinity by the masses of the acting substances , as elucidated by the experiments of M. BERTHOLLET ; for the combined effect of many particles possessing a feeble electrical energy , may be conceived equal or even superior to the effect of a few particles possessing a strong electrical energy : and the facts mentioned , page 2e , confirm the supposition : for concentrated alkaline lixivia resist the transmission of acids by electricity much more powerfully than weak ones .
Allowing combination to depend upon the balance of the natural electrical energies of bodies , it is easy to conceive that a measure may be found of the artificial en-rgiesi as to intensity and quantity produced in the comon lectrical mahine , or theVOLTAIC apparatus , capable of detroying this equili brium ; and such a measure would enable us to makfe a scale of electrical powers corresponding to degrees of affinity .
In the circuit of the VOLTAIC apparatus , completed by metallic wires and water , the strength of the opposite eectri cities diminish from the points of contact of the wires towards the middle point in the water , which is.necessaly neutra .
In a body of water of considerable length it probably would not be difficult to assign the places in which the different neutral compounds yielded to , or resisted , decomposition .
Sulphate of barytes , in all cases that I tried , required immediate contact with the wire : solution of sulphate of potash exhibited no marks of decomposition with the power of -i5 , when conconnected in a circuit of water ten inches in length , at four inches from the positive point ; but when paced within two inches , its alkali was slowly repelled and its acid attraoted.* Whenever bodies brought by artificial means into a high state of posite electricities are made to restore the equilibrium , heat and light are the common consequences .
It is perhap an additional circumstance , in favour of the theory to state that heat and light are likewise the result of all intense chemical action .
And as in certain forms of theVOLTAIC battery , where large quantities of electricity of low intensity act , heat is produced without light ; so in slow combinations there is an increase of temperature without luminous appearance .
The effect of HEAT , in producing combination , may be easily explained according to these ideas .
It not only often gives more freedom of motion to the particles , but in a number of cases it seems to exalt the electrical energies of bodies ; glass , the tourmalin , sulphur , all afford familiar instances of this last species of energy .
I heated together 'an insulated plate of copper and a plate of sulphur , and examined their electricities as their temperature became elevated : these electricities , scarcely sensible at 56 ?
FAHRENHEIT to the condensing electrometer , became at Ioo PFAHRENHEIT capable of affcting the gold leaves without condensation ; they increased in a still higher ratio as the sulphur approached towards its point of fusion .
At a little above this point , as is well known from the experiments of the Dutch chemists , the two substances rapidly combine , and heat and light are evident .
Similar effects may be conceived to occur in the case of oxygene and hydogene , which form water , a body apparently neutral in electrical energy to most other substances : and we may reasonably conclude that there is the same exaltation of power , in all cases of combustion .
In general , whxn the differnenenergies Are strong and in perfect equilibrium , the combination ought to be quick , the heat and light intens .
, and G2 43 the new compound in a neutralstate .
This would seem to be the case in the instance just quoted ; and in the cirumstances of the union of the strong alkalies and acids .
But where one energy is feeble and the other strong , all the effects must be less vivid ; and the compound , instead of being neutral , ought to exhibit the excess of the stronger energy .
This last idea is confirmed by all the experiments which I have been able to make on the energies of the saline compounds with regard to the metals .
Nitrate and sulphate of potash , muriate of lime , oxymuriate of potash , though repeatedly touched upon a large surface by plates ofcopper and zinc , gave no electrical charge to them ; subcarbonate of soda and borax , on the contrary , gave a slight negative charge , and alum and superphosphate of lime a feeble positive charge .
Should this principle on further enquiry be found to apply generally , the degree of the electrical energies of bodies , ascertained by means of sensible instruments , will afford new and useful indications of their composition .
IX .
On the Mode of Actionhe the Pile of VOLTA , with expetimental Elucidations .
The great tendency of the attraction of the different chemical agents , by the positive and negative surfaces in the VOLTAIC apparatus , seems to be to restore the electrical equilibrium .
In a VOLTAIC battery , composed of copper , zinc , and solution of muriate of soda , all circulation of the electricity ceases , the equilibrium is restored if copper be brought in contact with the zinc on both sides- : and oxygene and acids , which are attracted by the positively electrified zinc , exert similar agencies to the copper , but probably in a slighter degree , and being capable of combination with the metal , they produce a momentary equilibrium only .
-The electrical energies of the metals with regard to each other , or the substances dissolved in the water , in the VOLTAIC and other analogous instruments , seem to be the:causes that disturb the equilibrium , and the chemical changes the causes that tend tg restore the equilibrium ; and the phenomenon most probably depend on their joint agency .
In the VOLTAIC pile of zinc , copper , and solution of muriate of soda , in what has been called its condition of electrical tension , the communicating plates of copper and zinc are in opposite electrical states .
And with regard to electricities of such very low intensity , water is an insulating body : every copper-plate consequently produces by induction an increase of positive electricity upon the opposite zinc plate ; and every zinc plate an increase of negative electricity on the opposite copper-plate : and the intensity increases with the , number , and the quantity with the extent of the series .
When a communication is made between the two extreme points , the opposite electricities tend to annihilate each other ; and if the fluid medium could be a substance incapable of decomposition , the equilibrium , there is every reason to believe , would be restored , and the motion of the electricity cease .
But solution of muriate of soda being composed of two series of elements possessing opposite electrical energies , the oxygene and the acid are attracted by the zinc , and the hydrogene and the alkali by the copper .
The balance of power is momentary only ; for solution of zinc is formed , and the hydrogene disengaged .
The negative energy of the copper and the positive energy of the zinc are consequently again exerted , enfeebled only by the opposing energy of the soda in contact with the copper , and the process of electromotion continues , as long as the chemical changes are capable of being carried on .
This theory in some measure reconciles the hypothetical principles of the action of the pile adopted by its illustrious inventor , with the opinions concerning the chemical origin of GALVANISM , supported by the greater number of the British philosophers , and it is confirmed and strengthed by many facts and experiments .
Thus the VOLTAIC pile of 20 pairs of plates of copper and zinc exhibits no permanent electromotive power when the connecting fluid is water free from air ; for this substance does not readily undergo chemical change , and the equilibrium seems to be capable of being permanently restored through it .
Concentrated sulphuric acid , which is a much more perfect conductor , is equally inefficient , for it has little action upon zinc , and is itself decomposed only by a very strong power .
Piles , containing as their fluid element either pure water or sulphuric acid , will undoubtedly give single shocks , and this effect is connected with the restoration of the equilibrium disturbed by the energies of the metals ; but when their extreme plates are connected there is no exhibition ; as in usual cases of electromotion .
Water containing loosely combined oxygene is more efficient than water containing common air , asitenables * The experiments proving this fact , and the other analogous facts in this page , may be seen detailed in Nicholson-s Journal , 4to .
Vol , IV .
page 338 and 394 ; and Phil. Mrg .
Vol. X. page 40 46 oxide of zinc to be formed more rapidly , and in larger quantities .
Neutrosaline solutions which are at first very active , loose their energy in proportion as their add arranges itself on the side of the zinc , and their alkali on that of the copper ; and I have found the powers of a combination nearly destroyed from this cause very much revived , merely by agitating the fluids in the cells and mixing their parts together .
Diluted acids , which are themselves easily decomposed , or which assist the decomposition of water , are above all other substances powerful ; for they dissolve the zinc , and furnish only a gaseous product to the negative surface , which is immediately disengaged .
Thereae other experiments connected with very striking results , which ofr additional reasons for supposing the decomposition of the chemical menstrua essential to the cotinued electromotion in the pile .
As when -an electrical discharge is produced by means of small metallic surfaces in the VOLTAIC battery , ( the opposite states being exalted , ) sensible heat is the consequence , it occurred to me , that if the decomposition of the chemical agents wasessential to the balance of the opposed electricities , the effect , in a saline solution , of this decomposition , nd of the transfer of the alkali to the negative side , and of the acid to the positive side , ought , under favourable circumstances , to be connected with an increase of temperature .
, I placed the gold cones , which have been so often mentioned , in the circuit of the battery with the power of 1oo , I filled them with distilled water , and connected them by a piece of moistened asbestus , about an inch in length and of an inch diameter ; I provided a small air-thermometer capable of being immersed in the gold cones , expecting ( if any ) only a very slight change of temperature ; I introduced a drop of .
'solution of sulphate of potash into the positive cone : the decomposition instantly began : potash passed rapidly over into the negative cone , heat was immediately sensible ; and in less than two minutes the , water was in a state of ebullition .
I tried the same thing with a solution of nitrate of ammonia , and in this instance the heat rose to such an intensity as to evaporate all the water in three or four minutes , with a kind of explosive noise ; and at last actual inflammation took place , with the decomposition and dissipation of the greatest part of the salt.* That the increase of the conducting power of the water by the drop of saline solution had little or nothing to do with the effect , is evident from this circumstance .
I introduced a quantity of strong lixivium of potash into the cones , and likewise concentrated sulphuric acid , separately , which are better con- , ductors than solutions of the neutral salts ; but there was very little sensible effect .
The same principles will apply to all the varieties of the electrical apparatus , whether containing double or single plates ; and if the ideas developed in the preceding sections be correct , one property operating under different modifications is the universal cause of their activity .
X. On some general Illustrations and Applications of the foregoing Facts and Principles , and Conclusion .
The general ideas advanced in the preceding pages are evidently directly in contradiction to the opinion advanced by FABRONI , and which , in the early stage of the investigation , appeared extremely probable , namely , that chemical changes are the primary causes of the phenomena of GALVANISM .
Before the experiments of M. VOLTA on the electricity excited by the mere contact of metals were published , I had to a certain extent adopted this opinion ; but the new facts immediately proved that another power must necessarily be concerned ; for it was not possible to refer the electricity exhibited by the apposition of metallic surfaces to any chemical alterations , particularly as the effect is more distinct in a dry atmosphere , in which even the most oxidable metals do not change , than in a moist one , in which many metals undergo chemical alteration .
Other facts likewise soon occurred demonstrative of the same thing .
In the VOLTAIC combination of diluted nitrous acid , zinc and copper , as is well known , the side of the zinc exposed to the acid is positive .
But in combinations of zinc , water and diluted nitric acid , the surface exposed to the acid is negative ; though if the chemical action of the acid on the zinc had been the cause of the effect , it ought to be the same in both cases .
In mere cases of chemical change likewise electricity is never exhibited .
Iron burnt in oxygene gas , properly connected with a condensing electrometer , gives no charge to it during the process .
Nitre and charcoal deflagrated in com munication with the same instrument do not by their agencies in the slightest degree affect the gold leaves .
Solid pure potash and sulphuric acid made to colbine in an insulated platina crucible produce no electrical appearances .
A solid amalgam of bismuth and a solid amalgam of lead become fluid when mixed together : the experiment , I find , is connected with a diminution of temperature , but with no exhibition of electrical effects .
A thin plate of zinc , after being placed upon a surface of mercury , and separated by an insulating body , ; is found positive , the mercury is negative : the effects are exalted by heating the metals ; but let them be kept in contact sufficiently long to amalgamate , and the compound gives no signs of electricity .
I could mention a great number of other instances of pure chemical action in which I have used all the means in my power to ascertain the fact , and the result has been constantly the same .
In , cases of effervescence , indeed , particularly when accompanied by much heat , the metallic vessels employed become negative , but this is a phenomenon connected with evaporpation , the change of state of a body independent of chemical change , and is to be referred to a different law , X The change of the capacities of bodies in consequence of the alteration in their volumes , or states of existence by heat , is a continually operating source of electrical effects : and as I have hinted , page 36 , it often interferes with the results of experiments on the electrical energies of bodies as exhibited by contact .
It is likewise probably one of the sources of the capricious results of experiments of friction , in which the same body , according as its texture is altered , or its temperature changed , assumes different states with regard to another body .
Frictionl may be considered as a succession of contacts , and the natural energies of bodies would probably be accurately exhibited by it , if the unequal excitation of heat or its unequal communication to the different surfaces did not interfere by altering unequally their electrical capacities .
Of , the elements of flint glass , silex is slightly negative with 50 I mentioned the glass plates of BECCARrA as afoirding a parallel to the case of combination in consequence of the different electrical states of bodies .
In GUYTON DE MORVEAUv ' experiments on cohesion , the different metals are said to have adhered to mercury with a force proportional to their chemical affinities .
1But the other metals have different electrical energies , or different degrees of the same electrical energy with regard to this body ; and in all cases of contact of mercury with another metal , upon a large surface , they ought to adhere in consequence of the difference of their electrical states , and that with a force proportional to the exaltation of those states .
Iron , which M. GUYTON found slightly adhesive , I find exhibits little positive electricity after being laid upon a surface of mercury , and then separated .
Tin , zinc , and copper , which adhere much more strongly , communicate higher charges to the condensing electrometer : I have had no instrument sufficiently exact to measure the differences : but it would seem that the adhesion from the difference of electrical states must have operated in these experiments , * which being proportional to the electrical energies are , on the hypothesis before stated , proportional to the chemical affinities .
How far cohesion in general may be influenced or occasioned by this effect of the difference of the electrical energies of bodies is a curious question for investigation .
Many applications of the general facts and principles to regard to the metals , the soda is positive ; and in contacts of glass with metals I find it exhibits the excess of the energy of the alkali : the case , as is well kIlown , is the same in friction , the amalgam of the common machine is essential to its powerful excitation .
f Amalgamation undoubtedly must have interfered ; but the genreal result seems to have been d(istinct , VH the processes of chemistry , both in art and in nature , will readily suggest themselves to the philosophical enquirer .
They offer very easy methods of separating acid and alkaline matter , when they exist in combination , either together or separately , in minerals ; and the electrical powers of decomposition may be easily employed in animal and vegetable analysis .
A piece of muscular fibre , of two inches long and half an inch in diameter , after being electrified by the power of 50o for five days , became perfectly dry and hard , and left on incineration no saline matter .
Potash , soda , ammonia , lime , and oxide of iron were evolved from it on the negative side , and the three common mineral acids and the phosphoric acid , were given out on the positive side .
A laurel leaf treated in the same manner , appeared as if it had been exposed to a heat of 500 ?
or 600 ?
FAHRENHEIT , and was brown and parched .
Green colouring matter , with resin , alkali , and lime , appeared in the negative vessel : and the positive vessel contained a clear fluid , which had the smell of peach blossoms ; and which , when neutralized by potash , gave a blue-green precipitate to solution of sulphate of iron ; so that it contained vegetable prussic acid .
A small plant of mint , in a state of healthy vegetation , was made the medium of connection in the battery , its extremities being in contact with pure water ; the process was carried on for lo minutes : potash and lime were found in the negatively electrified water , and acid matter in the positively electrified water , which occasioned a precipitate in solutions of muriate of barytes , nitrate of silver , and muriate of lime .
This plant recovered after the process : but a similar one , that had been electrified for four hours with like results , faded and died.* The facts show that the electrical powers of decomposition act even upon living vegetable matter ; and there are some phenomenon which seem to prove that they operate likewise upon living animal systems .
When the fingers , after having been carefully washed with pure water , are brought in contact with this fluid in the positive part of the circuit , acid matter is rapidly developed , having the characters of a mixture of muriatic , phosphoric , and sulphuric acids : and if a similar trial be made in the negative part , 'fixed alkaline matter is as quickly exhibited .
The acid and alkaline tastes produced upon the tongue , in GALVANIC experiments , seem to depend upon the decomposition of the saline matter contained in the living animal substance , and perhaps in the saliva .
As acid and alkaline substances are capable of being separated from their combinations in living systems by electrical powers , there is every reason to believe that by converse methods they may be likewise introduced into the animal oeconomy , or made to pass through the animal organs : and the same thing may be supposed of metallic oxides ; and these ideas ought to lead to some new investigations in medicine and physiology .
It is not improbable that the electrical decomposition of the neutral salts in different cases may admit of ceconomical uses .
Well burned charcoal and plumbago , or charcoal and iron , might be made.the exciting powers ; and such an arrangement if erected upon an extensive scale , neutrosaline matter being employed in every series , would , there is every reason to believe , produce large quantities of acids and alkalies with very little trouble or expense .
Ammonia and acids capable of decomposition , undergo chemical change in the VOLTAIC circuit only when they are in very concentrated solution , and in other cases are merely carried to their particular points of rest .
This fact may induce us to hope that the new mode of analysis may lead us to the discovery of the true elements of bodies , if the materials acted on be employed in a certain state of concentration , and the electricity be sufficiently exalted .
For if chemical union be of the nature which I have ventured to suppose , however strong the natural electrical energies of the elements of bodies may be , yet there is every probability of a limit to their strength : whereas the powers of our artificial instruments seem capable of indefinite increase .
Alterations of electrical equilibrium are continually taking place in nature ; and it is probable that this influence , in its faculties of decomposition and transference , considerably interferes with the chemical alterations occurring in different parts of our system .
The electrical appearances which precede earthquakes and volcanic eruptions , and which have been described by the greater number of observers of these awful events , admit of very easy explanation on the principles that have been stated .
Besides the cases of sudden and violent change , there must be constant and tranquil alterations in which electricity is concerned , produced in various parts of the interior strata of our globe .
Where pyritous strata and strata of coal-blende occur , where the pure metas or the sulphurets are found in contact with each other , or any conducting substances , and where different strata contain different saline menstrua , electricity must be continually manifested ; and it is very probable , that many mineral formations have been materially influenced , or even occasioned by its agencies .
In an experiment that I made of eIectrifying a mixed solution of muriates of iron , of copper , of tin , and of cobalt , in a. positive vessel , distilled water being in a negative vessel , all the four oxides passed along the asbestus , and into the negative tube , and a yellow metallic crust formed on the wire , and the oxides arranged themselves in a mixed state round the base of it .
In another experiment , in .
which carbonate of copper was diffused through water in a state of minute division , and a negative wire placed in a small perforated cube of zeolite in the water , green crystals collected round the cube ; the particles not being capable of penetrating it .
By a multiplication of such instances the electrical power of transference may be easily conceived to apply to the explanation of some of : the principal and most mysterious facts in geology .
And by imagining a scale of feeble powers , it would be easy to account for the association of the insoluble metallic and earthy compounds , containing acids .
Natural electricity has hitherto been little investigated , except in the case of its evident and powerful concentration in the atmosphere .
Its slow and silent operations in every part of the surface will probably be found more immediately and importantly connected with the order and oeconomy of nature ; and investigations on this subject can hardly fail to enlighten our philosophical systems of the earth ; and may possibly place new powers within our reach .
EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES .
Plate I. Fig. i , Represents the agate cups , mentioned page 4 .
Fig. 2 , Represents the gold cones , page 6 .
Fig. 3 , Represents the glass tubes , and their attached apparatus , page 21 .
Fig. 4 , Represents the two glass tubes , with the intermediate vessel , page 22 .
In all the figures AB denote the wires , rendered one positively , the other negatively electrical ; and C the connecting pieces of moistened amianthus .
PHILO SOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. The Bakerian Lecture , on some chemical Agencies of Electricity , By Humphry Davy , Esq. R. .
M. R. L. A. Read November 2o , 18o6 .
1 .
Introduction .
THE chemical effects produced by electricity have been for some time objects of philosophical attention ; but the novelty of the phenomena , their want of analogy to known facts , and the apparent discordance of some of the results , have involved the enquiry in much obscurity .
An attempt to elucidate the subject will not , I hope , be considered by the Society as unfitted to the design of the Bakerian Lecture .
I shall have to detail some minute ( and I fear tedious ) experiments ; but they were absolutely essential to the investigation .
I shall likewise , however , be able to offer some illustrations of appearances which hitherto have not been fully explained , and to point out some new properties of one of the most powerful and general of material agents .
II .
On the Changes produced by Electricity in Water .
The appearance of acid and alkaline matter in water acted on by a current of electricityat the opposite electrified metallic surfaces was observed in the first chemical experiments made with the column of VOLTA.* Mr. CRUICKSHANKtF supposed that the acid was the nitrous acid and the alkali ammonia .
M. DESORMIES soon after attempted to show by experiments , that muriatic acid and ammonia were the products , and M. BRUGNATELLI ?
asserted the formation of a new and peculiar substance , which he has thought proper to call the electric acid .
The experiments said to be made in Italy , and in this country , on the production of muriate of soda are recent , fI and the discussions with regard to them still alive .
As early as 18oo , I had found that when separate portions of distilled water , filling two glass tubes connected by moist bladders , or any moist animal or vegetable substances , were submitted to the electrical action of the pile of VOLTA by means of gold wires , a nitro-muriatic solution of gold appeared in the tube containing the positive wire , or the wire transmitting the electricity , and a solution of soda in the opposite tube ; ?
but I soon ascertained that the muriatic acid owed its appearance to the animal or vegetable matters employed ; for when the same fibres of cotton were made use of in successive experiments , and washed after every process in a weak solution of nitric acid , the water in the apparatus containing them , though acted on for a great length of time with a very strong power , at last produced no effect upon solution of nitrate of silver .
In cases when I had procured much soda , the glass at its point of contact with the wire seemed considerably corroded ; and I was confirmed in my idea of referring the production of the alkali principally to this source , by finding that no fixed saline matter could be obtained , by electrifying distilled water in a single agate cup from two points of platina connected with the VOLTAIC battery .
Similar conclusions with regard to the appearance of the muriatic acid had been formed by the GALVANIC Society of Paris , by Dr. WOLLASTON , who hit upon the happy expedient of connecting the tubes together by well washed asbestus ; and by M. M. BIOT and THENARD.* Mr. SYLVESTER , however , in a Paper published in Mr. NICHOLSON'S Journal for last August , states , that though no fixed alkali or muriatic acid appears when a single vessel is employed ; yet that they are both formed when two vessels are used .
And to do away all objections with regard to vegetable substances or glass , he conducted his process in a vessel made of baked tobacco-pipe clay inserted in a crucible of platina .
I have no doubt of the correctness of his results : but the conclusion appears objectionable .
He conceives that he obtained fixed alkali , because the fluid after being heated and evaporated left a matter that tinged turmeric brown , which would have happened had it been lime , a substance that exists in considerable quantities in all pipe-clay ; and even allowing the presence of fixed alkali , the materials employed for themanufacture of tobacco-pipes are not at all such as to exclude the combinations of this substance .

