XXIII .
, Ele .
tro-.Cheical Researches , on the Deconpositiot f the Earths ; with Observations on the etals obtained from the alkaline Earths , and on the AIma !
gam procured from A , mmonia By Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R. S. M. R. I A. Read June 3oth , 1808 .
i. Introduction .
IN the Philosophical Transactions for 1807 , Part I. and 18o8 , Part I. I have detailed the general methods of decomposition by electricity , and stated various new facts obtained in consequence of the application of them .
The results of the experiments on potash and soda , as i stated in my last communication to the Society , afforded me the strongest hopes of being able to effect the decomposition both of the alkaline and common earths ; and the phenomena obtained in the first imperfect trials made upon those bodies countenanced the ideas that had obtained from the earliest periods of chemistry , of their being metallic in their nature.* Many difficulties however occurred in the way of obtaining complete evidence on , this subject : and the pursuit of the enquiry has required much labour and a considerable devotion of time , and has demanded more refined and complicated pro'cesses than those which had succeeded with the fixed alkalies .
The earths like the fixed alkalies are non-conductors of elec , tricity ; but the fixed alkalies become conducting by fusion : the infusible nature of the earths , however , rendered it impossible to operate upon them in this state : the strong affinity of their bases for oxygene , made it unavailing to act upon them in solution in water ; and the only methods that proved successful , were those of operating upon them by elecfricity in some of their combinatiolis , or of combining them at the moment of their decomposition by electricity , in metallic alloys , so as to obtain evidences of their nature and properties. .
NEUMAN'S Chem. Works , 2d .
edit .
vol. i. p. 15 .
The earlier English chemical philosophers seem to have adopted the opinion of the possibility of the production of metals from common earthy substances ; see BOYLE , vol. i. 4to .
p. 564 , and GREW , Anatomy of Plants , lec .
ii .
p. 242 .
But these notions were founded upon a kind of alchemical hypothesis of a general power in nature of transmuting one species oP matter into another .
Towards the end of the last century the doctrine was advanced in a more philosophical form ; BERM AN suspected barytes to be a metallic calx , Prxf .
Sciagrap .
Reg. Min .
&amp; Opusc .
iv 21 z. BA RO N supported the idea of the probability of alumine being a metallic substance , see Annals de Chemie , vol. x. p. 257.--L AVo I si E extended these notions , by supposing the other earths metallic oxides .
Elements , 2d edit .
KERR'S translation , p. 217 .
The general enquiry was closed by the assertion of TONDI and Ru REC H-T , that the earths might be reduced by charcoal ; and the accurate researches of KLAPROTH and SAVARESI , who proved by the most decisiv experiments , that the metals taken for the bases of the earths were phosphurets of iron , obtained from the bone ashes and other materials employed in the experiment , Annals de Chemie , vol. viii p. i8 .
and vol. .
p. 257 , 275 .
Amidst all these hypotheses , potash and soda were never considered as metallic in their nature ; LA V OISI ER supposed then to contain azote ; nor at that time were there any analogies to lead that acute philo .
sopher to a happier conjecture .
I delayed for some time laying an a-count of many of the principal results which I obtaned before the Society , the hopes of being able to render them more distinct and satisfactory ; but finding that for this end a more powerful battery , and more perfect apparatus than I have a prospect of seeing very soon constructed , will be required , I have ventured to bring forwards the investigation in its present imperfect state ; and I shall prefer the imputation of having published unfinished labours , to that of having concealed any new facts from the scientific world , which may tend to assist the progress of chemical knowledge .
o , Methods employed for deconmosing the alkaline Earths .
Barytes , strontites , and lime , slightly moistened , were electrified by iron wires under naphtha , by the same methods , and with the same powers as those employed for the decomposition , of the fixed alkalies .
In these cases , gas was copiously evolved , which was inflammable ; and the earths where in contact with the negative metallic wires became dark coloured , and exhibited small points having a metallic lustre , which , when exposed to air , gradually became white ; they became white likewise when plunged under water , and when examined in this experiment by a magnifier , a greenish powder seemed to separate from them , and small globules of gas were disengaged .
In these cases there was great reason to believe that the earths had been decomposed ; and that their bases had combined with the iron , so as to form alloys decomposible by the oxygene of air or water ; but the indistinctness of the effect , # Ste page 4 .
and the complicated circumstances required for it , were sucih as to compel ome to form otherF plans of operation .
The strong attraction of potassiumfor oxygene , induced me to try whether this body might not detach the oxygene from the earths , in the same manner as charcoal decomposes the common metallic oxides .
I heated potassium in contact with dry pure lime , barytes , strontites , and magnesia , in tubes of plate glass ; but as I was obliged to use very small quantities , and as I could ot , raise the heat to ignition without fusing the glass , I obtained in this way no good results .
The potassium appeared to act upon : the earths and on the glass , and dark brown sulbstances were obtained , which evolved gas from water ; but no ' distinct metallic globules could be procured : from these circumstances , and other like circumstances , it seemed probable , that though potassium may partially de-oxygenate the earths , yet its affinity for oxygene , at least at the temperature which I employed , is not sufficient to effect their decomposition .
I made mixtures of dry potash in excess and dry barytes , lime , strontites , and magnesia , brought them into fusion , and acted upon them in the voltaic circuit in the same manner as that I employed for obtaining the metals of the alkalies .
My hopes were , that the potassium , and the metals of the earths might be de-oxygenated at the same time , and enter into combination in alloy .
In this way of operating , the results were more distinct than in the last : metallic substances appeared , less fusible than " potassium , which burnt the instant after they had formed , and which by burning produced a lixture of potash and the earth employed ; I endeavoured to form them under naphtlia , but 236 co~t ithout tituh sti'ces .
To prod:ci t^e fe'ut at ll , requird a charge by the atihn ofntitric ad , whif the bCatteriesd'idiot-permit e offe'n 'o e Imptoy ' ; *''ndthe ' retal was generated only in very ' mnlute films , : hich could not be -dtached : by f ; sionl,.and ' whichwere:instantly destroyed by exposure to air .
1- ' ' had foundi 'my researches upon potassium , that when a -mixture ptas no ofas d theoxides of mercury , tin , ori ead , was electrifiedin ' the VOLTAIC cL .
uit , the decomposition was very rapid , and:a amalgam , -or an alloy of potassium was obtained ; the attraction beteen the common metals and the potassium agpparenyt 'e elerea ing the separation of the oxygene .
t- ' -The idea that a siiilar kind of action might assist the decomposition-of the " alkaline earths , induced me to electrify:mixtures '-f these bodies and the oxide of tin , of iron , of lead , of silver , and of mercury ; and these operations were far more satis ; efatory th an ay of the others .
A mixture of two-thirds of barytes and one-third of oxide of silver very slightly moistened was electrified by iron wires ; an efeirvescence took place at both points of contact , and a minute quantity of a substance , possessing the whiteness of silver , formed at the negative point .
When the iron wire to which this substance adhered was plunged into water containing a little alum in solution , gas was disengaged , which proved to be hydrogene ; and white clouds which were found to be sulphate of barytes , descended from the point of the wire .
A mixture of barytes and red oxide of mercury , in the same proportions , was electrified in the same manner .
A small mass of solid amalgam adhered to the negative wire , which evidently contained a substance , that produced barytes by exposure to air , with the absorption of oxygene ; and which occasioned the evolution of hydrogene from water , leaving pure mercury , and producing a solution of barytes .
Mixtures of lime , strontites , magnesia , and red oxide of mercury , treated in the same manner , gave similar amalgams , from which the alkaline earths were regenerated by the action of air or water , with like phenomena ; but the quantities of metallic substances obtained were exceedingly minute ; they appeared as mere superficial formations surrounding the point of the wire , nor did they increase after the first few minutes of electrization , even when the process was carried on for some hours .
'These experiments were made previous to April , 1808 , at which time the batteries were so much injured by constant use , as no longer to form an effcient combination .
The enquiry was suspended for a short time : but in May I was enabled to resume it , by employing a new and much more powerful combination , constructed in the Laboratory of the Royal Institution , and consisting of five hundred pairs of double plates of six inches square .
When I attempted to obtain amalgams with this apparatus , the transmitting wires being of platina , of about I of an inch in diameter ; the heat generated was so great as to burn both the mercury and basis of the amalgam at the moment of its formation ; and when by extending the surfaces of the conductors , this power of ignition was modified , yet still the amalgam was only produced in thin films , and I could not obtain globules sufficiently large to submit to distillation .
When the transmitting wires were of iron of the same thickness , the iron acquired the temperature of ignition , and combined with the bases of the earths in preference to the mercury , and metallic alloys of a dark grey colour were obtained , which acted on water with the evolution of hydrogene , and were converted into oxide of iron , and alkaline earths .
Whilst I was engaged in these experiments , in the beginning of June , I received a letter from Professor BERZELIUS of Stockholm , in which he informed me that in conjunction with Dr. PONTIN , he had succeeded in decomposing barytes and lime , by negatively electrifying mercury in contact with them , and that in this way he had obtained amalgams of the metals of these earths .
I immediately repeated these operations with perfect success ; a globule of mercury , electrified by the power of the battery of 500 , weakly charged , was made to act upon a surface of slightly moistened barytes , fixed upon a plate of platina .
The mercury gradually became less fluid , and after a few minutes xM as found covered with a white film of barytes ; Xx 2 339 and1e when the amalgam was thrown into water , hydrogene was disengaged , tih mercury remained free , and a solution of barytes was formed l The result with lime , as these gentlemen had stated , was precisely analogous .
That the same happy methods must succeed with strontites and magnesia , it was not easy to doubt , and I quickly tried the experiment .
From strontites I obtained a very rapid result ; but from magnesia , in the first trials , no amalgam could be procured .
By continuing the process however , for a longer time , and keeping the earth continually moist , at last a combination of the basis with mercury was obtained , which slowly produced magnesia by absorption of oxygene from air , or by the action of water .
All these amalgams I found might be preserved for a considerable period under naphtha .
In a length of time , however , .
they became covered , with a white crust under this fluid .
When exposed to air , a very few minutes only were required for the oxygenation of the bases of the earths .
In water the amalgam of barytes was most rapidly decomposed : that of strontites and that of lime next in order : but the amalgam from magnesia , as might be expected from the weak affinity of the earth for water , very slowly changed ; whenr a little sulphuric acid was added to the water , however , the evolution of hydrogene , and the production and solution of magnesia were exceedingly rapid , and .
the mercury soon remained free .
I was inclined to believe that one reason why magnesia was less easy to metallize than the other alkaline earths , was its insolubility in water , which would prevent it from being presented in the nascent state , detached from its solution at the 340 negative surface .
On ' this idea L tried the experim ntg using moistened sulphate of magnesia , Jinstead of the pure earth ; and I found that the amalgam was much sooner obtained .
Here the magnesia was attracted from the sulphuric acid , and probably deoxygenated and combined with the quicksilver at the same instant .
The amalgams of the other bases of the , alkaline earths , could , I found , be obtained in the same manner , from their s line compounds .
I : tried in this way very successfully , muriate and sulphate of lime , the muriate of strontites , and of barytes , and nitrate of barytes .
The earths separated at the deoxygenating surface , there seemed instantly to undergo decomposition , and seized upon by the mercury , were in some measure defended from the action of air , and from the contact of water , and preserved by their strong attraction for this metal .
ILI , -Attempts to procure the Metals of the alkaline EartF s ; and on their Properties .
To : procure quantities of amalgams sufficient for distillation , i combined the methods I had before employed , with those of M : M. ' BERZELIUS and PoNTIN .
The earths were slightly moistened , and , mixed with , onethird of red oxide of mercury , the miixture was placed on a plate of platina , a cavity was made in the upper part of it to receive a globule of mercury , of from fifty to o6 grains in weight , the .
whole was covered by a film of naphtha , and the piate was made posiive , and the mercury negative , by a proper co mmunication witih the battery of five hIndred , .
The amalgams obtained in this way , were distilled in tubes of plate glass , or in some cases in tubes of common glass .
These tubes were bent in the middle , and the extremities were enlarged , and rendered globular by blowing , so as to serve the purposes of a retort and receiver .
The tube after the amalgam had been introduced , was filled with naphtha , which was afterwards expelled by boiling , through a small orifice in the end corresponding to the receiver , which was hermetically sealed when the tube contained nothing but the vapour of naphtha , and the amalgam .
I found immediately that the mercury rose pure by distillation from the amalgam , and it was very easy to separate a part-of it ; but to obtain a complete decomposition was very difficult .
For this nearly a red heat was required , and at a red heat the bases of the earths instantly acted upon the glass , and became oxygenated .
When the tube was large in proportion to the quantity of amalgam , the vapour of the naphtha furnished oxygene sufficient to destroy part of the bases : and when a small tube was employed , it was difficult to heat the part used as a retort sufficient to drive off the whole of the mercury from the basis , without raising too highly the temperature of the part serving for the receiver , so as to burst the tube.* In consequence of these difficulties , in a multitude of trials , I obtained only a very few successful results , and in no case could I be absolutely certain that there was not a minute portion of mercury still in combination with the metals of the earths .
In the best result that I obtained from the distillation of the amalgam of barytes , the residuum appeared as a white metal of the colour of silver .
It was fixed at all common temperatures , but became fluid at a heat below redness , and did not rise in vapour when heated to redness , in a tube of plate glass , but acted violently upon the glass , producing a black mass , which seemed to contain barytes , and a fixed alkaline basis , in the first degree of oxygenation.* 'When exposed tot air , it rapidly t arnishhd , .
adtfe .
L into a white powder , which was barytes , ^ When tis pre ss:as conducted in a small portion , of ir the oxygene sid absorbed , and .
the nitrogene unaltered , h when a , portion it x. as ntroduced into water , it acted upon it.with great viol ce and sunk to the bottom , produing in it barytes ; and.hydrogene xs generated.:The quantities in which I1oQtainedtk were to9 Xminvte for me to be able to examine correct^ , e rheritsp sical or chemical properties .
It sunk rapid in water and eveni in sulphuric acid , though surrounded by glgbu !
e of yd~ rogene , .
, equal to..two .
, or three.itinmes : , its , vo.ul , fr_ which it seems probable , .
that it .
ca t b , J s.thi.kf oo five times as , heavy as water .
, .
It flattened , prsu but required a considerab ; le.force for this efibct. . !
n Ill the instantesther &amp; e is grtea ren.to by at thJ hdent wspt d from the water adhering to the acids ; and the different proportion of it it thedif e et ses , re a strong'prf of this oplnion Attin g tis ia , it seems th murtic idgamust ontaihatlea t : one-eight hr bne-nthdfitsi ; toftw ater ; and that the water oxygenates in the experiment a quanityof ptassiunli ' sliii t absorb the whole of the acid .
hi the cases of fluoric and boracic acids , there is probably a decom osition of th es bdies ' ; black ' subtstance prfd ced from the boradc acid ii a simitr:'t 'a 'T:ad ; ohtainid fTromn itby deericityr The quantitieSthat I h.a.ei.tej upi e been as , yet too ' small to , enable ; me to separate and examine fte pQducts , iad4 , till this is done , -no ultimate coclusion can be drawn .
The action of potassium upon muriatic acid gas , indicates a muich larger ua tity ofvwater:n ethis substance , than the a'ction of electricity in Dr. iN Y ' : , io i'ate ex,6s'u , -b n c. 6~t IA'n-fbe-"t D1r l"oa te experimenti , ; bpt.tin thel no iuLsta ce the acid enter into ; a soid $t td ; i e rmainsaeriform ; and the difficulty of deconmpsition by.eletriqity , ,ti proportion as the quantity of water diminishes , so that at the apparent aaximu , efectrical effect , there is no reason to suppose the gas free from water..T p rsons who hae suppod hydrogene to be the basis oimuriatic at i ma perhaps , give another solution of the phpnomena , and consider the eqtpehi"ant , i* v detailed as a proof of this opinion .
The metal from strontites sunk in sulphuric acid , and exhibited the same characters as that from barytes , except in producing strontites by oxydation .
The metal from lime , I have never been able to examine exposed to air or under naphtha .
In the case in whichlI was able to distil the quicksilver from it to tne greatest extent , the tube unfortunately broke , wliilst warm , and at the moment that the air entered , the metal , which had the colour and lustre of silver , instantly took fire , and burnt with an intense white light into quicklime .
The metal from magnesia seemed to act upon the glass , even before te whoeohe hoof he quicksilver was distilled from it .
In ant experiment in which I stopped the process befoe t. i " St , : procs etore the mercury was entirely driven off , it appeared as a solid , having the same whiteness and lustre as the other metals of the earths .
It sunk rapidly in water , though surrounded by globules of gas , producing magnesa , and quickly chaned in air , becoming covered with a white crust , and falling into a fine powder , which proved to be magnesia .
, In ; several cases in which amalgams of the metals of the earths , containing only a small quantity of mercury were obtained , I exposed them to air on a delicate balance , and ' : '.i .
'* $ ! ?
, :-^5 ' ''f ' : .
s ' : , i. '_ ~ .
, : ' , ; , , ; ... .- ... ... always found that during zthe conversion of metal into earth , *..:.e.e , ' " t ; ' , : ' h.'.:. .
: .
X. ' ' ... : ... . .
, , ' .
: ' " there was a considerable increase of weight .
I endeavoured to ascertain the proportions of oxygene , and bases , in barytes and strontites , by eating amalgams of them in tubes filled with oxfyene , but without success .
I satisfied myself , however , that when the metals of the earths were burned in a small quantity of air they absorbed oxygene , gaieil.d weight in the process , and were in the , higly car stic o-r - , nsiacked state ; for they produced strong heat by Cthe cor .
tact f w ; er , and did ; not effervesce during their solution in .
; ac.ids .
The evidence for the composition of the alkaline earthls is then of the sam e kin as that for the composition of the cm moin metallic oxides ; ..and the , principles of their decompositimon-re precsely similar , the inflammable ttes i all cases seprating:at the negative surface in the .
VOLTAIC circuit , and th oxygene at these positive surface .
These new substan.ces will demand nam es ; and Qthe same prtincples as I have named the bases of the fix alkalies potassium andsodium , I shall venture to denominate the metals from the alkaline earths barium , strontium , calci'um,.and.magnium ; the last of these words is undoubtedly objectionable , but magnesium ; * has been already applied to metallic manganese , and would consequently have hbeen an equivocal term .
IV .
Enquiries rlative to the Decomposition f -Ahlnine , lex , Zircone , and Gikeine .
: I tried the methods of electrization and combination 'th quicksilver , and the common metals , by which I had succeeded in decomposing the alkaline earths , on alumine and silex ; but without gaining distinct evidences of theirhliaviig undergone any change in the processes .
Obliged to seek for other means of acting upon them'nit as necessary to consider minutely their relations to otiier : BE G MA N. Opusc .
tom .
ii .
p. zoo , bodies , and to search for analogies by which the principles otu research might be guided .
Alumine very slowly finds its point of rest at the negative pole , in the electrical circuit ; but silex , even when dififsed in its gelatinous state through water , rests indifferently at the negative or positive poles .
From this indifference to positive and negative electrical attractions , following the general order of facts , it might be inferred , that if these bodies be compounds , the'-electrical energies of their elements are nearly in equilibrium ; and that their state is either analogous to that of insoluble neutral salts , or of oxides nearly saturated with oxygene .
The comin ations of silex.and alumine , with acids and alka* lies , as well as their electrical powers , were not inconsistent with either of these ideas ; -for in some respects they resemble in physical characters , fluate and phosphate of lime , as much as in others , they approach to the oxides of zinc and tin .
On the idea that silex might be aninsoluble neutrosaline compound , containing an unknown acid or earth , or both , and capable of being resolved into its secondary elements , in the same manner as sulphate of barytes , or fluate of lime , I made the following experiments .
: Two gold cones , connected by moistened amianthus , were filled with pure water , and placed in the electrical circuit , a small quantity of carefully prepared and well washed silex was introduced into the positive cone : the action was kept up from a battery of two hundred plates , for some hours till nearly half of the fluid in each cone was exhausted ; the remainders were examined ; the fluid in the cone containing he.iex 'wasstrihiigly 'cid -thait w in th .
opposilte:'con:e.ws strollgly alkaline ; the two -fluids were spassed hioughi bitous paper,.- ?
a:"d mixed together .
, w , n p , eclpitfte .
fel d6wn,.wIich .
pi:oved to be sileX.:nthe first view of the subject , it appeared -robable that:this silex had been formed by the unlon of the atcid ' nd the.'alkaline matter in the two cones , aia tf4at the expeiirent demfionsitrated a do ecom positi'n d of ?
silex ; but b ; efore such a conclusioni could u1e -ade , fany point we'e to -.o * , e f ie wasiong : eie:rifi ed ; :by degrees t st , its po we &lt; of affod _g.he h ubstanceinquestino.*.Ti^ s Thixesut havin g taae e thie am plan of operation , was not pursued with respect to alumine , which resemblresa sin nomlpondild:ss:than silex , and the method Whih I n-ow o:ado )ted .
acting upon these bodies , was n the suppositin.of thetir bei g inflatmable substances so highl sausrated with Ioxy no as topssess little or no positive eleOricit:"i : ; : ma ui^ : and:i sile a.have tha : a. strong ; : atfinity for:po:h and soda ; now supposing them to be oxides , it a re-as on:abfle : to -conclude.thatth e oxyene , -both thealklies:and the earths mustbepasve astothis power , which Irt --consei qtin tlybih ed to .
their basess , -ani 'on : t.is in '.i , n it as possible athat.it-mightbe madeto assist their deom.poi.tion by-el:-tricity.:.After this reasoning , I : fused : : a mixure Of : no pa rt osie : , .
-n:ad sixr t potahin a platin-a cr ucte ; : and:pr es rvd fthe mi titeiriife.utidSandl m ignitkio n , " over a fire of charcoal ; the crucilMe s4 : s- : rendered positfie from the -battery.fie hundred,.and a rod of platina , endered negative , was .
brought in contact with..-Ifsilex that has been carefully washed , after precipitation by muriatic acid from liquor sticu,.be moistened , and acted on by -mercury nlegatively electrified , the terery soori contains a notable eqiuaitity of potstitahi .
Well washed alum inethatM a^sbee -precidpi:tated fro al a:m bycitronte- .
of 'osda , affordsby the:same. .
trieathtient sodiuim'and ipotassium , so that the powe rs of , electrochemical analysis are continually demonstratiti.g the imperfection of the common chemical methods of separating di:ds-roneCih oth-her .
T'ie purest boracic acid 'hich : can be obtained from borax b ^m-i al.i:compobsitido , by electrical , an yssislshewn to , contai both-soda , ; :and the , :d:com ?
posing acid employed in the process ; and henc-te the experient on .
he action of the boracic acid and.ipotassium , ,p ; ae 343 , may possbly be explained .
witihou t ass-uaing its d ecdmpos'ition .
Eltecrodehmica !
Zesear"hes on tkhal-kaie menstruum ... At the moment of contact there was a most : intense light ; .
when the rod was plunged into the lquid:an efirvescence toq place , and globules which burnt with a brilliant flame rose to the surface , and swam upon it in la state of coubustion .
In a few minutes , when the mixture was cool , the platina bar was removed : after as much as possible of the alkali and silex had been detached from it by a knife , there remained brilliant metallic scales round it , which instantly became covered with a white crust in the air , and sorme of which inflamedspontaneously .
The platina appeared much corroded , rand of a darker tint than belongs to the pure metal .
: : ~When it was plunged into water it strongly efferVesced.i tbhe fluid that came from it was alkaline ; when a few drops of muriatic acid .
were added to the solution , a white loudiness.occurred , which various trials.demonstrated , depend:id:upon the presence of silex .
A : , Asimilar mixture of potash and alumine was experimented upon inrthe-same manner , and the results were perfectly analogous ; there adhered to the rod of platina a film of a metallic substance , which rapidly decomposed water , and afforded a solution which deposited alumine by the action of an acid .
I tried several forms of this experiment , with the hopes of being able to obtain a sufficient quantity of the metallic matter from the platina , so as to examine it in a separate state ; but I was not successful .
It was always in superficial scales , which oxidated , becoming white and alkaline , before it could be detached in the air ; it instantly burnt when heated , and could not be fused under naphtha or oil.:iI tried similar experiments with mixtures:of soda and 'xsI l baTUde , andA aat ard z irc &amp; hrie , iad ued ionais the iiegatively lectrficd ' niei.tal .
Inall 'these cases , during:the whole procss o'f etcthzatl - , 'fabndance , 6f : lobules ; which s iwa statef lifla niii .
on the fsed mas s , wereproduced .
AXnd in te mixture , ' wlie cooled , small laminm of metal were found of the colour of ea , alead , andlesssib than odium , which adhered to the'e ron ; they acted violently upon water , and produced'soda and ' a white powder , but in quantitites ; .Wo small to beminutey " ex iamined , ' 'I endeav6ured toprocure aan alloy ' of ' potassiun , :andi:*the bases of the earths , -from ' mixtures of : potash , silex , an alumine , fsd " by ' eletfricity , and ' acted on " by the tpsitive aand n'g ative ' : urfs ' ; lti the same inanerras : pure potash in -expegatVe ; I sur-a n purace potas':periments for the decompositiond tof that substance ; but : I obtained no gvood Tresuilts .
: .
When:theearths:were in quantities equal to otne-fourth or one-fifth of tealkali , they rendered it so tigfiy noi-Cctin g , that it Was'not easy to:affect it by eectfricity , 'and ' awhen^they were .
in':vey minute portions , the 'isistance produed : thd the characters of : pure potassium .
I heated g small globules of potassium , in'contact with silex and alumine , ' in tubes of plate glass filledwith the vapour of naphtha:}i ' ti potass-i'tum seemed toact at the sametime upon the giassianid the eartls , anda grayis to que mass , not possesed of metal ic ' spllndour was obtained , which effervesced in .
water , de'ip6sting hite clo-uds. .
Hereit.was possible that the potash had bee'"ecn rerted wholly or -partly into protoxide,.by , its actiot'ii upon ; e arths - ; but as noglIobule was obtained,.and ' 'as the plate glass alone might lave -l r)duiced the effect , no 'declded inference ' : thedeompdosit on of the earths can be : drawn .
from the process , C , I I , ?
hBib ?
i#)6S of 840hij &amp; ~ !
the at trgdps th.atI marit r ?
$pet to this object .
Pota siun , iamalg ated wwth wbut oehrd.of .
iercpry , ,:was lectrifiedl ngativetlyaundr , jaiphti.a , in.co-ntct with sile ?
c very slightl:y moaistened !
, i by t -wp r ofiw e 4Hpn.dreidL ; aftgr n , aan hour three -vr'ltiwaslewxaned .
: The .ts : ia.im .
Ws made , ,to iecompose.watr , at-er the alkali fformedneutraltz4d by aetwsus aciad ; .
awhite , matter , havingt4 ll .
A pe,. .
npf silex precipitated , but in quanity too .
small .for ; acute , :amination .
, tried the same tmethod ofdgation uponalumine apd g and obtained-^acloudinne ss , ; ore distf0ct 4 tn i tte .
sqasaif , ilex , bty.:the ^astion oban:aci upon:e : otin the.amalgam .
Zircone : exposed in ?
the:same anner , to the -actint : f edeticity , :and the attraton : of potassium , furnishedaatill npore sa tisfactory reisult , fr a ; .white and fine , powder sinbe n , ulphur !
iciacid , and.which was precipitated Iom.u-lphurici by.aml onia , separated nfrn the atalgam n that , had , bee whbtained , by the action , of water .
: Fraom:the : general tenor off these reults , and hepmpar -son between the : different series of e xpris thert seepms very great ; :reason^ to conclde , thati al1mine , .
, cpne,.glcjne , and silSex are , like the alkaline , rths metjilc oides , fo:n Mo other suppositionis it easy to expi the pime na ptht -hve ' been:detailed .
The eviden.ces of decompostion nd d composition , pr.pt.however ofi the .
am strict nature as .
those:4hat elng to the:xfixed alkales and.alkine rths ; , for it is ssible at in te experiments in which the silex , alumi no .
, i i ?
vne , a eppared n da.sodiu n , their bases might not actually have been in combihation : 'ith them^t ' btt iite ' ea'frth ti he`eM'v , T 'I nsion With the meal of i the ilkaliebr , 'oiii mreo mechanica'1 mixture .
'And : outSf an 'immense 'number of experiiments ' which I made of the ktihid l ast detailed , a : very few only gave distinct indications af the prodiition-of any earthy matter ; and in cases when earthy iinatter'idd"aipeair the qtiarntity was such as rendered it imji6 ; sibe : tde id id on the 'speces .
Had I been so fortunate as to have obtained more certain evidences on : this subject , and to have procured the metallic substnce~iI wasmq insearch of , 'I should have proposed for them -inameS ofiieiui.alatimium , zirconium , and glucium .
; ... On : the productio of an Awmalgamjrom Am^mooia , and on its Nature nd Properties .
t.'l on^^toimtminication fromPfiofssor BERZELIUzS and : Dr. PONiT ; hic , h 'I have ' already referred to , a most curious and jriportant experiment on the deoxydation and amalmgamation of the compound basis of ammonia is mentioned , which these 'htfii:bu , s'gentlemen 'regard as a strict prooof o:the idea I had fbrm6d 6f its being 'an oxide with a binary basis .
''"i'Merrcury , ' negafively ' electrified in the VOLTAIC circuit , is tcead in:contact with solution of 'ammonia , Under thi ; tiiniytgradiially increases in volume , and when expanded to four or five times its former dimensions , becomes a soft ^ nd idaia tis substance is composed of the deoxygenated iotipind basis f 'ammnonia and merrcury , they : thih'k 'i ' Provi i , : Bin the repr &amp; du tiohn df ... ... 'Ncccv II rZ z Ir.:r .
DAV 'Ys : sEl etrochemicat 1 Reserch ' : son with the absorption of oxygene , : when-it .
is exposed -:toair and secondly , by its forming ammonia in waterh , whilst hydrogene is evolved , and the quicksilver gradually become feeri A operation , int which hydrogene and nitrogene : exhibit metallic properties , or in which a metallic substance is apparently composed from its elements , cannot fail to:fix the attention of chemists : and the peculiar interest which it offered in itsrelations to the general theory of electrochemical science , induced me to examine the circumstances connected with it minutely and extensively .
I ; Inrepeating thie process of the Swedish &amp; chmists , I found that to form an : amalgam from fifty or sixty : grains ' o , fmer cury , in contact with saturated solution of ammonia , required a considerable time , and that this amalgam greatly -changed evnen in the short period required for removing it from the solution .
'I was however able , in this mode of operating , to wit ess:all the results they have stated , and I soon foundsimple and more-easy means of producing the effect , and'circumstances under which it could be more distinctly analysed .
The experiments which I have detailed in the Bi ; KEIAtA lecture for 1806 , proved that ammonia is disengaged from the ammoriacal salts , at the negative surface in the VoLTAiC cir:cuit ; and I concluded that under this agency , it may be acted on in what is called the nascent state , when it was reasonable to conclude it would be more readily deoxygenated and combined with quicksilver .
On this view of the subject , I made a cavity in , a piece:of muriate of ammonia ; into this a globule of mercury , weighing about fifty grains , was introduced .
The muriate was slightly 3514 :the Dec sitio,.f.t Earths , .
moistened , so as to be rendered a conductor , and placed on a plate of platina , which was made positive in the circuit of the large battery .
The quicksilverwass made negative by means of a platina:wire .
i The action of the quicksilver on the salt was immediatet ; a strong effervescence with much heat took place .
The globule in a few minutes had enlarged to five times its former dimensions , and had the appearance of an amnalgau of zinc ; .
and metallict crystallizations shot from it , as a centre , round the body of the salt .
They had an arborescent appear ance , often became coloured at their points of contact with the muriate ; :and when the connection was broken ; rapidly disappeared .
, emitting ammoniacal fumes , and reproducing quicksilver .
, Whien a piece of moistened carbonate of ammonia was used , the appearances were the same , and the amalgam was formed with equal rapidity .
In this process of deoxydation , when the battery was in , Dpowerful action , a black matter formed in the cavity , which there is every reason to believe was carbonaceous matter from the decomposition of the carbonic acid of the carbonate.* The strong attraction of potassium , sodium , and the metals of the alkaline earths for oxygene , induced me to examine whether their deoxydating powers could not be made to produce the effetf thec amalgamation of ammonia , independently of the agency of electricity ; and the result was very satisfactory..:When mercury , united to a small quantity of potassium , sodium , barium , or calcium , was made to act upon moistened.*:.The black matter which separates at the negative surface in the electrical experiments on the decomposition of potash or soda , and which some experimenters have found it difficult to account for , is I find carbonaceous , and dependent upon the presenlce of carbonic acid n the alkali , rZz e rSO tain much more ammoniacal basis thanthiat procured y elec .
tfi'al po wers .
As in these cases , however , a portion of the metal used for te deoxydation always remained in union in the compound ; in desCribing the propertiess of the amalgam from amnrmoia , I shall : speak only bof that procured by electrical means .
The amnalgam from ammonia , when formedn at the tempemra ture of 7 ?
o or 80 , is a soft.solid , of the consistence of butter ; at the freezing temperature it becomes firmer , and a crystallized mass , in which small : facets appear , but haviig , no perkectly defined fbrm .
, Its specific gravity is below , water being one .
When exposed to air it soon becomes covered with a white crust , which proves to be carbonate of ammonia .
When thrown into water it produces a quantity of hydro : gene , equal to about half its bulk , and in consequence of this : action the water becomes a weak solution of ammonia .
When it is confined in a given portion of air , the air enlarges considerably in volume , and the pure quicksilver re-appears .
Ammoniacal gas , equal to one and a half or : one and threefifths of the volume of the amalgam is found to be produced , and a quantity of oxygene equal to one-seventh , or one-eighth of the ammonia disappears.-f * From the facet I suspect the form to be cubical .
The amalgam of otassium crystallizes in cubes as beautiful , and in some cases as large , as those of bismuth .
This experiment confirms the opinions I have stated concerning the quantity of xygene in ammonia ; but as water is present , as will be immediately shown , the data , for proportions are not perfectly correct .
theD awe ]he Earths , &amp; c3 -When thrown:into muriatice acid gas , it instantly becomes coated withmuriate of , ammonia , andq a small quantity of hydrogene is disengaged ; In sulphuric acid it becomes coated with sulphate of ammoniaa and sulphur .
I attempted by a variety of modes to preserve this amalgam , I had hoped by submitting it to distillation out of the contact of air , or water , or bodies which could furnish oxygene , to be able to , obtain the deoxygenated substance which had been united to the quicksilver in a pure form ; but all the circumstances of the experiment opposed themselves to such a result .
, It is well known to persons accustomed to barometrical experinents , th mercury after being once moistened , retains water with great perseverance , and can only be freed from it by boiling ; : and in the cases of the decomposition of ammonia , when a soft amalgam had been kept continually moist , both internally and externally for some time , it could not be expected that all the water adhering to it should be easily remnoved .
I wiped the amalgam as carefully as possible with bibulous paper ; but even in this process a considerable portion of the ammonia was regenerated ; I attempted to free it from moisture by passing it through fine linen , but a complete decomposition was effected , and nothing was obtained but pure quicksilver .
The whole quantity of the basis of ammonia combined in sixty grains of quicksilver , as is evident from the statements that have been made , does not exceed epart of a grain , and to supply oxygene to this scarcely --o part of a grain of ' water would be required , which is a quantity hardly appreM.- , .
$8 IM Are , .
DAYYsS Elec , chemicaa..Re , sZ eases o-t ciable , and which .
merely breathing upon the amalgam would be almost suficient to communicate .
Hence , when an amalgam , which had been wiped by imeans of bibulous paper , was introduced into naphtha , it decomposed almost as rapidly as in the air , producing ammonia and hydrogene .
In oils it evolved hydrogene , and generated anmoniacal.sap ; and when it was introduced into a glass tube , closed by a.cok , gas was rapidly formed , and the mercury remained free ; and this gas , when examined , was found to consist of from : about two-thirds to three-fourths ammonia , and the remainder Jhydrogene , *.That more moisture sometimes existed attached to the amalgam , when wiped as dry as possible by bibulous .
paper , tha was sufficient for the effect of decomposition , I soon found by an experiment of distillation .
About a quarter of a cubic inch of an amalgam nearly solid was wiped very dry , and introduced into a small tube : in this tube it was heated till the gaseous matter had expelled the quicksilver ; thetube was then closed , and suffered to cool , when moisture , which proved to be a saturated solution of ammonia , had precipitated upon it .
; I have mentioned that the amalgams obtained from ammonia , by means of the metals of the fixed alkalies or alkaline earths , seemed to contain much more ammoniacal basis in combination than those procured by electricity : and when they.are combined with the metals of the fixed alkalies or In the experiment of the action of the amalgam upon air , the oxygene is probably absorbed by nascent hydrogene , and reproduces water , which is dissolved by the ammonia .
the ecpos-tion of theo Earths , ' &amp; c 9 of the earths in any considerable quantities , they are much more permament .
'Triple compounds of this kind , :when carefully wiped , scarcely produce anyammonia under naphtha , or oil , and may be preserved for a considerable time in closed glass tubes , a little hydrogene being the only prodact evolved from them .
I heated a triple amalgam obtained from ammonia by potas , sium , ?
nd which had been wiped by bibulous paper in a dry plate-glass tube over mercury ; a considerable elevation .
of temperature was required before any gaseous matter was emitted , but the heat was raised till gas was rapidly formed , and the whole of the amalgam expelled from the tube : in cooing , the mercury rose very quickly in it , so that a great part of the gaseous matter had been either mercury or water , in vapour , or something which the mercury had absorbed in cooling The small quantity which was permanent , did not equalt one half the volume of the amalgam .
n the idea that this gas might be a compound of hydrogene and nitrogene in the state of deoxygenation , I mixed a small quantity of oxygene gas with it , but no change of volume took place ; I then exposed it to naphtha , when one half of it was absorbed , which by the effect the naphtha produced upon turmeric must have been ammonia ; the remaining gas analyzed was found to consist of the oxygene that had been introdtced , and of hydrogene and nitrogene to each other in the proportion of nearly four to one .
At first I was perplexed by this result , which seemed to prove the production of ammonia , independent of the presence of any substance which could furnish oxygene to it , and to show that its amalgamation was merely owing to its being 8S9 freed fr water , and .
combinei , d with hydrogene : b. ut a ; satis : factory solution of the difficulty soon offered itself .
Exposing the , triple amalgam procured from ammonia by p , tassium to ?
acxoncentrated solution of amamonia , I found that it had Veryj little , action upon it , and introducing the amalgam moistened by it , into a glass tube , it had nearly the same permanency as the amalgam which had been wiped before it was introduced , o a little hydrogene -only beitig evolved ; but on heating sthe tube gaseous matter was rapidly generated , which proved to consist of two-thirds ammonia , and one-third hydrOgene .
: In the instance in which the am1algam had beenwiped , a ' small quantity of solution of ammonia , and perhaps of potash must have adhered to it ; and though the amalgam does nof act upon this powerfully at common temperatures , yet when the water is raised in vapour , it tends to oxygenate both the basis of ammonia , and potassium , and hence hydrogene is ' evolved , and volatile alkali produced .
I distilled an amalgam procured by potassium from ammonia , in a tube filled with the vapour of naphtha , and hermetically sealed , in the same manner as in the experiments for obtaining the metals of the earths , but in this case I procured- : ammonia , hydrogene , and nitrogene only , and pure mercury ; tand the residuum was potassium , which acted powerfully on ?
the glass tube , In another experiment of the same kind , I kept one part of , the tube cool by ice , at the time the other part was strqpgly heated , but nothing condensible except mercury was pro : duced , and the elastic products were the same as in the former instance .
I endeavoured to procure an aamalga from ammpia , *to Soo which no moisture could be spoed to adhere byheating amalgam of potassium in ammoniacal gas .
The amalgam bhcame cvered with a film of potash , but it did not enlarge in its dimensions , and a considerable quantity of non-absorbable gas , which was found to consist of five parts of hydrogene , and one of nitrogene , was produced .
The amalgam after this operation , did not emit ammonia by exposure to air , hence it seems probable , that for the deoxygenation of ammonia , and the combination of its basis with mercury , the alkali must be in the nascent state , or at least in that condensed form in , which it exists in ammoniacal salts , or solutions .
VI .
Some Considerations of general Theory , connected with the Metallization of the Alkalies and the Earths .
THE more the properties of the amalgam obtained from ammonia are considered , the more extraordinary do they appear .
-Mercury by combination with about 12 part of its weight of new matter , is rendered a solid , yet has its specific gravity diminished from 13.5 to less than 3 , and it retains all its metallic characters ; its colour , lustre , opacity , and conducting powers remaining unimpaired .
It is scarcely possible to conceive that a substance which forms with mercury so perfect an amalgam , should not be metallic in its own nature ; * and on this idea to assist the discus : ' te nature of the:compounds of sulphur and phosphorus with mercury , favour this opinion , ; theseinflammable bodies by combination , impair its metallic properties cinnabar is a 1non conductor , and it would seem from PELL/ TIE R'S experiments , Ann. de Chemie , vol. xiii .
p. 125 , that the phosphuret of mercury is not n.etallic in its characters ; charcoal is a conductor , and in plumbago carbon approaches very oMDccVIItI 3 A discussionconcerning it , it may be conveniently termed am , monium .
But on what do the metallic properties of ammonium depend ?
Are hydrogene and nitrogene both metals in the aeriform state , at the usual temperatures of the atmosphere , bodies of the same character , as zinc and quicksilver would be in the heat of ignition ?
Or are these gases , in their comm-on form , oxides , which become metallized by deoxydation ?
Or are they simple bodies not metallic in their own nature , but capable of composing a metal in their deoxygenated , and an alkali in their oxygenated state ?
FThese problems , the second of which was stated by Mr. CAVENDISH to me , and the last of which belongs to Mr. BERZELIUS , offer most important objects of investigation .
I have made some experiments in relation to them , but as yet unsuccessfully .
I have heated the amalgam of potassium , in contact with both hydrogene and nitrogene , but : without attaining their metallization ; but this fact cannot beconsidered as decisively for or against any one of these con-jectures .
I mentioned in the BAKERIAN Lecture for 1807 , thata modification of a phlogistic chemical theory might be defended on the idea that the metals and inflammable solids , usually called : simple , were compounds of the same matter as that existing in near to a metalin its characters , so that the metallic nature of steel does not militate against the reasoning in the text .
The only facts which I am acquaintcd with , .
that do militate against it , are the metallic characters of some of the sulphurets and .
phosphurets of the imperfect metalsf 3 6a -c.a Dec ) 3o-h " h ` t-h~ &amp; C* hydrogene , with peculiar unknown bases , and that the oxides , alkalies , and acids were compounds of the same bases with water , and that the phenomena presented by the metals of ' he fixed alkalies might be explained on this hypothesis .
The same mode of reasoning may be applied to the facts of the metallization of the earths and ammonia , and perhaps with rather stronger evidences in its favour , but still it will be less , distinct and simple , than the usually received theory of oxygenation , which I have applied to them .
The general facts of the combustion , and of the action of these new combustible substances upon water , are certainly most easily explained on the hypothesis of LAVOISIER ; and the only good arguments in favour of a common principle of inflammability , flow from some of the novel analogies in electrochemical science .
Assuming the existence of hydrogene in the amalgam of ammonium , its presence in one metallic compound evidently leads to the suspicion of its combination in others .
And in the electrical powers of the different species of matter , there are circumstances which extend the idea to combustible substances in general .
Oxygene is the only body which can be supposed to be elementary , attracted by the positive surface in the electrical circuit , and all compound bodies , the nature of which is known , that are attracted by this surface , contain a considerable proportion of oxygene .
Hydrogene is the only matter attracted by the negative surface , which can be considered as acting the opposite part to oxygene ; may not then the differentinflammable bodies , supposed to be simple , contain this as a common element ?
Should future experiments prove the truth of this hypoA a2 ^6_0 thesis , still the alkalies , the earths , andi theametallic oxideswil l belong to the same class of bodies .
: From platina to potassium there is a regular order of gradation as to theirhysical and chemical properties , and .
this would probably extend to ammonium , could it be obtained in the fixed form .
Platina and gold in specific gravity , degree of oxidability , and other qualities , differ more from arsenic , iron , and tin , than.these lasts do from barium and strontium .
The phatnomen-a of combustion of all the oxidable metals are precisely analogous .
In the same manner as arsenic forms an acid by burning in air , potassium forms an alkali and calcium an earth ; in a manner similar to that in which osmium forms a volatileand acrid substance by the absorption of oxygene , does the amalgam of ammonium produce the volatile alkali ; and if we suppose that ammonia is metallized , by being combined with hydrogene , and freed from water , the same reasoning will likewise apply to the other metals , with this difference , that the adherence of their phlogiston or hydrogene , would be exactly in the inverse ratio of their attraction for oxygene .
In platina * it would be combined with the greatest energy ; in ammonium with the least ; and if it be separable from any bf:the im-etalsl wihoiut theaiel ; of a newi c minatio , ve may expect that , this result will be afforded by the mostvolatile and oxidable , such asarsenic , or the metals of the : fixed alkalies , submitted to intense heat , under electrical polarities , and ihving the pressure of the atmosphere removed .
Whatever new lights new discoveries may throw:upon this subject , still the facts that have been advanced , show that a : step nearer at least has been attained towards the tmi knowledge of the nature of the alkalies and the earths.* Something t , as been , .
separated , from them -which adds to tieeir weight 1 , and whethecr it ' be considered as oxygene , or as not be furnished by the decomposition of the volatile alkali itself .
Potassiuiim n its first degre of oxygenation , may have an afinity for nitrogene , or potassium may expel a portion of hydrogene at the moment of its combination with ammonium ; and as the whole of the ammonia cannot be regenerated without the presence of water ; hyd:ogene and a little oxygene may be furnished to the remaining elements of the ammonia , from the water , and oxygene to the potassium .
Even before the-conclusion was formed , that a metallic substance is decomposed ia this experiment , it should have been proved that the nitrogene had not been altered .
That mere potash , combined with hydrogene , eannor form potassium , is I think shown by an experiment which I tried , in consequence of the important fact lately ascertained by M.M. GAY L ssAc , and TH ENARD , of the deoxydation of potash by iron. .
An ounce of potash was kept in ignition for some time in an iron tube , ground into a gun barrel in which one ounce and a half of iron turnings were ignited to whiteness ; a communication was opened , by withdrawing a wire which closed the tube containing the potash , between that alkali and the metal .
As the potash came in contact with the iron , gaseous matter was developed , which was received in a proper apparatus , and though some of it was lost by passing through the potash into the atmosphere , yet nearly half a cubic foot was preserved , which proved to be hydrogene .
In the tube were found two products , one in the quantity of a few grains , containing potassium , combined with a small quantity of iron , and which had sublimed in the operation , and the other a fixed white metallic substance which consisted of an alloy of iron and potassium .
The first of these -substances burnt when thrown upon water ; and in its other characters resembled pure potassium , except that its specific gravity was greater , its colour less brilliant , and when it tarniished in the atmosphere , it became of a much deeper colour than pure potassium , Now potash that has been ignited , is the purest form known of this alkali ; but on M. M. GAY LUssAC 's and THENARD'S theory , this potash must contain water , not only sufficient to furnish hydrogene to metallize the alkali , but likewise the quantity disengaged : dry potash then , as it is procured in our experiments , must on thistheory be a compound , containing a considerable quantity o &amp; f matter which can fursish hydrogene ; and what would be its form or properties if ' deprived of this imat3ter we are wTholly unable to judge , which brings this question to the general'.e ; o disrcussed in the text water , the inflammable body is less compounded , than the uninflammable substance resulting from its combustion .
Potassium I find may he produced readily from dry ignited potash in electrical experiments ; and the result of the combustion of potassium in oxygene gas is an alkali , so dry that it produces violent heat , and ebullition when water is added to it .
In MN .
M. GA LUssAC'S and THENARD'S experiment on the action of potassium on ammonia , l the hydrogene disengaged in the first process , and that existing inA the ammonia disengaged in the second process , exactly equals the whole quantity contained in the ammonia .
But there is no proof of any hydrogene being disengaged from the potassium , for the:ammonia lost is not generated , nor potash formed , but by the addition of a substance , consisting of oxygene and hydrogene ; and as the three bodies concerned in this experiment are potassium , ammonia , and water , the result ought to be potash , ammonia , and a quantity of hydrogene , equal to that evolved by the mere action of water on .
potassium , which is said to be the case .
Even if there were no other proofs , the chemical properties of potassium are so , wholly unlike those that might be expected from a compound of potash and hydrogene , that they are almost sufficient to decide the question .
Potassium acts upon water with much more energy than potash , and produces much more heat in it ; and yet if a compound of hydrogeve , the affinity of potash for water must be diminished by its affinity for hydrogene , to .
say nothing of the quantity of heat , which ought ( on the common theory of capacity for heat ) to.be carried off by this light inflammable gas .
Potassium burns in carbonic acid , and precipitates charcoal from it ; whereas hydrogene electrized with carbonic acid , converts it into gaseous oxide of carbon .
Potash has a very slight attraction for phosphorus ; but potassium has a very strong affinity for it , so as to separate it from hydrogeine and according to M.M1v GAY LussAC and THE .
ARDt , with the phanomena of inflammation .
Potash has no affinity for arsenic , yet from the experiments of these gentlemen , it appears , that potassium separates arsenic from arseniated hydrogene ; and hydrogene , which is supposed by them to exist in both compounds , can have no affinlity for hydrogene , .
nor can hydrogene in one form , be supFosed capable of separating arsenic from hydrogene in another form. .
Could not the experimentof M. NM .
GA Y LUSSAC and THENARD be explained ; except on the supposition of the hydrogene being derived from the potassium , it would be a distinct fact in favour of the revival of the theory of phlogiston .
It would not , prove , however ; that potassium is composed of hydrogene arid potash , but that it is : composed of hydrogene and an unknown basis ; and that potash is this basis united ; to .
water ; .
hypotheses -mightbe formed upon the new electrochemialfacts , in which still fewer elements than those allowed in the antlogitiogic or phlogistic theory might be maintained .
Certain electrical states always coincide with certain chemical states of bodies .
Thus acids are uniformly negative , alkalies positive , and inflammable si b ; tances highly positive ; and as I have found , acid matters when positively electrified , and alkaline matters when negatively electrified , seem to loose all their peculiar properties and powers of combination .
In these instances the chemical qualities are shown to depend upon the electrical powers ; and it is not impossible that matter of the same kind , possessed of different electrical powers , may exhibit different chemical forms.* .:~ , , , % ? . .
, Ed:i ?
' , :. .
: ~~~~~~~~~~~-::""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , i. j ~ !
~ .
" I venture to hint- ' at M theBse notiE i o^ but : Id : a:notattah much importance to them ; the age of chemistry is not yet suflicienti in mture ?
, feor- : such:idiscussi'ns ; the-l:monresubtile pls ers of matter are but just beginning to be considered ; ; and all general views concerning them , must as yet rest iupo ; feeble and imperfect foundations .
: t : U : - : Whatever be the fate of the speculative part of the -enquiry , the facts however will , I hope , admit of many applications , : and explain some phenomena in nature .
The metals of the earths cannot exist at the surface of the globe ; but it is very possible that they may form a part of the interior ; and such an assumption would offer a theory for the phenomenon of volcanoes , the formation of lavas , and the excitement and effects of subterraneous heat , * and would probably lead to a general hypothesis in geology .
The luminous appearance of those meteors connected with the fall of stones , is one of the extraordinary circumstances of these wonderful phenomena .
This effect may be accounted Water positively electrified would be hydrogene , water negatively electrified , oxygene ; and as in the physical experiments of temI ; erature , ice , added to certain quantities of steam by an equilibrium of heat produces water , so in the chemical experiment of the generation of water the positive and negative electricity of oxygene and hydrogene in certa n proportions would annihilate each other , and water alone be the result .
At all events amrmonium , whether simple or compound , must be considered as owing its attraction tor oxygene to its highly positive electrical state , which is shown by its powerful determination to the negative surface in the VOLTAIC circuit .
for , by supposing that the substances which fall , come into our atmosphere in a metallic state ; and that the earths they principally consist of are a result of combustion ; but this idea has not the slightest connexion with their origin or causes .

