An Account of some E xperiments and Observations on the constituent Parts of certain astringent Vegetables ; and on their Operation in Tanning .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. Professor of Chenzistry in the Royal Institution .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read February 24 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 233 .
] The importance of the subject handled in this paper , which , as it particularly relates to the process of tanning leather , will be allowed to be of sufficient magnitude , has of late excited the attention of several able philosophers , among whom Mr. Seguin was the first who ascertained the peculiar vegetable matter which is essential to this process , and which is possessed of the characteristic property of precipitating gelatine from its solutions .
Mr. Proust has since investigated many other properties of this substance ; but neither these , nor any other chemists , have as yet carried their investigations so far as to determine the various affinities of tannin , and especially how its action upon animal matters is modified by combination with other substances .
This task was reserved for our author , who during the two last years bestowed most of his leisure hours on a course of experiments on this subject ; and he here lays before the Society an account of their general results .
His chief design was to elucidate the practical part of the process ; but in pursuing it he found himself necessarily led to general chemical inquiries concerning the analysis of the different vegetable substances containing tannin , and their peculiar properties .
The paper consists of five parts , the titles of which are as follows : -1 .
Observations on the analysis of astringent vegetable infusions .
2 .
Experiments on the infusions of galls .
3 .
Experiments and observations on the extracts of Catechu , or Terra Japonica .
4 .
Experiments and observations on the astringent infusions of barks , and other vegetable productions ; and 5 .
General observations .
And first , as to the analysis of astringent vegetable infusions ; the substances that have been supposed to exist most generally in them are tannin , gallic acid , and extractive matter .
The presence of tannin in an infusion is denoted by the precipitate it forms with gelatine , such as glue or isinglass ; but the process requires many and 11i very delicate precautions : previous to the experiments the infusions are materially affected by exposure to the atmosphere ; the tanning principle in different vegetables demands for its saturation different proportions of gelatine ; and the quantity of the precipitate obtained by filtration is not always proportionate to the quantity of tannin and gelatine in the solution , but is materially influenced by the degree of their concentration .
Hence it follows that the solutions of gelatine , for the purposes of analysis , should be employed in as high a state of saturation as is compatible with their perfect fluidity .
They should be used only when quite fresh ; and as their relative effects were found to be influenced by their temperature , it was found expedient to bring them , and the infusions on which they were designed to act , as nearly as possible , to a common degree of heat : great care must also be taken to prevent any excess of gelatine .
Duly attending to all these precautions , the general result is , that in any given case , when the quantity of gelatine in the solution employed upon an astringent infusion is compared with the quantity of the precipitate obtained , the difference between them may be considered as the proportion of tannin contained in the infusion .
The tannin being thus separated , it remained to ascertain the proportion of the two other ingredients in the infusion , viz. the gallic acid , and the extractive matter .
The first step here was slow evaporation , by which the latter substance is in part rendered insoluble , so as to subside at the bottom of the vessel .
A proportionate quantity of alcohol being next poured upon the fluid thus reduced to a thick consistency , both the gallic acid and the soluble extractive matter , if there be any remaining in the infusion , will be dissolved .
The great difficulty now was to separate the gallic acid and the extractive matter .
Ether and alumine were tried without the desired effect , the affinities of these two agents with those substances not being sufficiently distinct to produce the separation .
Some judgement , however , may be formed of their relative proportions , by means of the salts of alumine and the oxygenated salts of iron .
Muriate of alumine precipitates much of the extractive matter from solutions , without acting materially upon gallic acid ; and after this precipitation , some idea may be formed concerning the quantity of the gallic acid , by the colour it gives with the oxygenated sulphate of iron .
2 .
Concerning the Infusions of Galls.-'The strongest solution of gallnuts was obtained by repeatedly pouring distilled water upon the best Aleppo galls , broken into small pieces ; it was of the specific gravity 1 068 .
400 grains of this solution produced by evaporation 53 grains of solid matter , which , as well as could be estimated by the methods of analysis described in the preceding section , consisted of about - ?
9 , ths of gallic acid , united to a minute portion of extractive matter .
100 grains , moreover , of this solid matter left , after incineration , nearly 4grains of ashes , which were a mixture of lime with carbonate of lime , and a small portion of fixed alkali .
Here follows a long series of experiments on the infusion of gallnuts , in which it was exposed to , or combined with , all manner of i chemical agents , viz. the sulphuric , muriatic , and nitric acids , potash , soda , ammonia , and a variety of alkaline earths , magnesia , alumine , different solutions of neutral salts , metallic oxides and solutions , and other substances , the list of which is too long to be here inserted .
Many of the results may be considered as insulated facts ; but those who attend to inquiries of this nature , will find most of them connected with useful conclusions , tending to elucidate this obscure , but no doubt very interesting part of chemistry .
The ultimate result of those experiments , as to the constituent parts of gall-nuts , is , that 500 grains of good Aleppo nuts gave by lixiviation with pure water , till all the soluble parts were taken up , 185 grains of solid matter , and that this matter , examined by analysis , consisted of 130 grains of tannin ; 35 grains of gallic acid , with a little extractive matter ; 12 grains of mucilage , and matter rendered insoluble by evaporation , and the remaining 8 grains of calcareous earth and saline matter .
3 .
On the Extracts of Catechu , or T'erra Japonica.-This extract is said to be obtained from the wood of a species of the Mimosa , which is found abundantly in India , by decoction and subsequent evaporation .
There are two kinds , the one sent from Bombay , and the other from Bengal , They somewhat differ from each other in their external appearance , but very little , it seems , in their chemical composition .
The tastes of both are sensibly astringent ; and neither of them deliquesces , or is apparently changed by exposure to air .
Our President was the first who , noticing the more obvious qualities of this substance , suspected that it contained the tanning principle ; and being possessed of a sufficient quantity , he was pleased to supply Mr. Davy with all he wanted for the purpose of a chemical examination .
The first experiments showed that its solution copiously precipitated gelatine , and that it speedily tanned skin .
And hence he was encouraged to undertake the particular investigation of its properties , the account of which is the subject of the present section .
His mode of proceeding , of course , could not differ materially from that which he adopted in the analysis of the gall-nuts .
And indeed most of the same , and some additional chemical agents , have been put to the test .
-The ultimate analysis has been attended with some difficulty , different specimens of this substance , though to all appearance ever so pure , differing materially among themselves ; the natives , for the sake of profit , being apt to adulterate what they sell , either with sand , earthy substances , or other extraneous matter .
Mr. Davy , in order to obviate this difficulty , selected a number of specimens , such as he had reason to think the least tainted , and having reduced them into powder , he found the two sorts to consist of the following ingredients:-200 grains of the extract of catechu from Bombay consisted of 109 grains of tannin , 68 grains of a peculiar extractive matter , 13 grains of mucilage , and 10 grains of residual matter , chiefly sand and calcareous earth .
The same quantity of the extract from Bengal yielded 97 grains of tannin , 73 grains of peculiar extractive matter , 16 grains of mucilage , and 14 of residual matter ; viz. sand , with a small quantity of calcareous and aluminous earth .
The importance of the object will , we trust , justify our inserting here what our author has ascertained concerning the application of this substance to tanning .
Of two pieces of calf-skin , he tells us , which weighed when dry 132 grains each , and which had been prepared for tanning : one was immersed in a large quantity of the infusion of extract of catechu from Bengal , and the other in an equal portion of the infusion of the extract from Bombay .
In less than a month they were both found converted into leather .
When freed from moisture by long exposure in the sunshine , they were weighed .
The first piece had gained about 34 grains , and the second piece 354 grains .
The colour of the leather was much deeper than that tanned with galls , and on the upper surface it was of a reddish brown .
It was not acted on by hot or cold water ; and its apparent strength was the same as that of similar leather tanned in the usual manner .
4 .
On the Infusions of Barks , and other vegetable productions .
The experiments described in this section were chiefly made on the strongest infusions of the barks of oak , Leicester willow , and Spanish chestnut : each of them were nearly of the specific gravity denoted by 1*05 .
Their tastes were alike , strongly astringent : 200 grains of each , on being submitted to evaporation , yielded , the oak bark 17 grains , and the two other barks about 164 grains of solid matter ; and the tannin afforded by these substances were , the oak bark 14 grains , the willow bark 144 grains , and the Spanish chestnut 13 grains .
These substances also gave by incineration only a very small quantity of ashes , scarcely T-- , th part of their original weights ; and these ashes consisted chiefly of calcareous earth and alkali , the quantity being greatest from the matter produced from the chestnut bark .
, These several infusions were acted on by the acids and pure alkalies in a manner very similar to that adopted with the infusion of galls .
No gallic acid whatever could be obtained from any of them ; and if any be contained in them , it is imagined that it must be in a state of intimate combination with extractive matter .
The proportions of the astringent principle in barks vary considerably according to the age and size of the trees from whence they are taken , and probably also according to the different seasons in which they are gathered .
In every astringent bark the interior white part ( that is the part next to the wood ) contains the largest quantity of tannin : the proportion of extractive matter is generally greatest in the middle or coloured ipart ; but the epidermis seldom furnishes either tannin or extractive matter .
A few other circumstances are here added , which ought to influence tanners in the choice of their barks .
The other vegetable infusions examined by Mr. Davy were those of the barks of elm and common willow , of sumach , Mirabola nuts , tea , and some other vegetables of known astringent qualities .
The results offer no very material differences ; but in general the author remarks , that in all substances possessed of an astringent taste , there is great reason to suspect the existence of tannin ; that it may be found in fruits , in which it is modified by sugar and acids ; that he has found it in great abundance in the juice of sloes , and that a friend of his had discovered its presence even in port wine .
It also appears that it may exist in a state of combination in different substances , in which its presence cannot be made evident by the common means of solutions of gelatine ; and that in these cases , in order to detect its existence , it may be necessary to have recourse to the action of diluted acids .
General Observations.-After a few strictures concerning a conjecture of Mr. Proust , that there are different species of the tanning principle possessed of different properties , and different powers of acting upon re-agents , from which our author thinks himself authorized to dissent , he draws the general conclusion , -that in all the different astringent infusions the tanning principle is found possessed of the same general properties and powers of combination .
In all instances it is capable of entering into union with the acids , alkalies , ,and earths ; and of forming insoluble compounds with gelatine and with skin .
That in the processes of tanning , if the astringent infusion contain extractive and colouring matter , these as well as tannin enter into chemical combination with the skin ; but that in no case is there any reason to believe that gallic acid is ablsorbed in this process .
That hence the different qualities of leather made with the same kind of skin , seem to depend very much upon the different quantities of extractive and colouring matter it contains ; the leather prepared by means of infusions of galls being generally found harder , and more liable to crack than that obtained from the infusions of bark .
When skins are slowly tanned in weak solutions of the barks , or of extract of catechu , it combines with a considerable l)roportion of extractive matter , whereby it is rendered perfectly insoluble in water , and yet soft and very strong .
T'he inference , perhaps the most essential , deduced from this inquiry is , that of all the astringent substances as yet examined , the extracts of catechu are those that contain the largest proportion of tannin , half a pound of this extract being found to produce the same effect in tanning as from four to five pounds of common oak bark .
How material this must be in a country where oak timber is not an object of trivial importance , need not be here insisted upon.-The paper closes with a table , in which oak bark being taken as the standard of comparison as to its quantity of tannin , the different astringent substances are arranged in the order of their powers .

