XXII .
On some Combinations of Phosphorus and Sulphur , and on some other Subjects of Chemical Inquiry .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Knt. LL. D. Sec. R. S. Read June 18 , I81ei .
Introduction .
IN this paper , I shall do myself the honour of laying before the Society , the results of some experiments on phosphorus and sulphur , which establish the existence of some new compounds , and which offer decided evidences in favour of an idea that has been for some time prevalent amongst many enlightened chemists , and which I have defended in former papers published in the Philosophical Transactions ; namely , that bodies unite in definite proportions , and that there is a relation between the quantities in which the same element unites with different elements , I shall not enter into a minute detail of the methods of experimenting that I employed ; I shall confine myself to general statements of the facts .
The common manipulations of chemistry are now too well known to require any new illustrations : and to dwell upon familiar operations , would be to occupy unnecessarily and tediously the time of this learned body .
2 .
Of some Combiniations of Phosphorus .
In a paper read before the Royal Society in 810o , I have described the mutual action of phosphorus and oxymuriatic gas , or chlorine .
I have noticed two compounds which appear to be distinct and peculiar bodies , formed by the union of the gas and the inflammable substance .
One is solid , white , and crystalline in its appearance ; easily volatile , and capable of forming a fixed infusible substance by uniting with ammonia .
The other is fluid , limpid as water , and , as I have since found , of specific gravity.45 ; it produces dense fumes by acting upon the water of the atmosphere , and when exposed to the atmosphere gradually disappears , leaving no residuum .
The composition of the white sublimate is very easily ascertained by synthetical experiments , such as I have described on a former occasion in the Transactions .
By employing chlorine dried by muriate of lime , in great excess , and making the experiments in exhausted vessels , and admitting solution of chlorine to ascertain the quantity of gas absorbed , I have ascertained that 3 grains of phosphorus unite with about 20 grains of chlorine to form the sublimate .
If the phosphorus be in great excess in the experiment of its combustion in chlorine , sone of the liquor is formed with the sublimate ; but to obtain it in considerable quantities , phosphorus should be passed in vapour through heated powdered corrosive sublimate .
A bent glass tube may be used for the process , and the liquor condensed in a cold vessel connected with the tube .
I have not been able to determine its composition by synthetical experiments ; but by pouring it gradually into water , 4 06 suffering the water to become cool after each addition of the liquor , and then precipitating the solution by solution of nitrate of silver , I have ascertained the quantity of chlorine and of phosphorus it contains .
13.6 grains , treated in this way , afforded 43 grains of horn silver .
It is evident from this analysis , compared with the result of the synthetical experiments on the sublimate , that the quantity of phosphorus being the same , the sublimate contains double as much c'lorine as the liquor .
When phosphorus is heated in the liquor , a portion is dis , solved , and it then when exposed to the atmosphere leaves a film of phosphorus , which when the liquor is thrown on paper usually inflames : a substance of this kind was first procured by M M. GAY LUSSAC and THENARD , by distilling phophorus and calomel together ; and it may be produced in the experiment with corrosive sublimate , if sufficient heat be used to sublime the phosphorus , or if there be not an excess of the corrosive sublimate .
I have made no experiments in order to ascertain the quantity of phosphorus the liquor will dissolve .
When the white sublimate is made to act upon water , it dissolves in it producing much heat .
The solution evaporated affords a thick liquid , which is a solution of pure phosphoric acid , or a hydrat of phosphoric acid .
When the liquor is treated with water in the same way , it furnishes likewise a thick fluid of the consistence of syrup , which crystallizes slowly by cooling , and forms transparent parallelopipedons .
This substance has very singular properties : when it is heated pretty strongly in the air , it takes fire and burns brilliantly , emitting at the same time globules of gas , that inflame 3 GS 407 at the surface of the liquid .
This substance may be called hydrophosphorous acid ; for it consists of pure phosphorous acid and water .
This is proved by the action of ammoniacal gas upon it ; when it is heated in contact with ammonia , water is expelled and phosphite of ammonia formed ; and it is likewise shown by the results of its decomposition in close vessels , which are phosphoric acid and a peculiar compound of phosphorus and hydrogen .
Ten parts in weight of the crystalline acid I found produced about 8.5 parts of solid phosphoric acid , and the elastic product must of course have formed the remainder of the weight , allowing for a small quantity of the substance not decomposed .
The peculiar gas is not spontaneously inflammable ; but explodes when mixed with air , and heated to a temperature rather below 212 ? .
Its specific gravity appeared from an experiment in which a small quantity of it only was weighed , to be to that of air nearly as 87 to ioo .
Water absorbed about one-eighth of its volume of this gas .
Its smell was disagreeable , but not nearly so fetid as that of common phosphuretted hydrogene .
When it was detonated with oxygene , it was found that three of it in volume absorbed more than five in volume of oxygene , and a little phosphorus was precipitated .
When potassium was heated in contact with it , its volume increased rapidly till it became double , and then no further effect was produced .
The potassium was partly converted into a substance having all the characters of phosphuret of potassium ; and the residual gas absorbed the same quantity of oxygene by detonation as pure hydrogene .
When sulphur 40:8 was sublimed in the gas over mercury , the volume was likewise doubled ; a compound of phosphorus and sulphur was formed , and the elastic fluid produced had all the characters of sulphuretted hydrogene .
It appears from these experiments , that the peculiar gas consists of 4.5 of hydrogene in weight to 92.5 phosphorus ; and its composition being known , it is easy to determine the composition of the hydrophosphorous acid , and likewise : the quantity-of oxygene required by a given quantity of phosphorous acid to be converted into phosphoric acid ; for , for every volume of gas disengaged , a volume of oxygene must have been fixed in the phosphoric acid .
And calculating for 174 grains , 30 parts of oxygene must be fixed in the 150 parts of phosphoric acid , and 20 parts of phosphorus disengaged in combination with 4 parts of hydro , gene ; and on the idea of representing the proportions in which bodies combine by numbers , if hydrogene be considered.as unity and water as composed of two proportions of hydrogene , 2 , and one of oxygene 15 , * phosphorus will be represented by 20 .
When the compounds of chlorine and phosphorus are acted on by a small quantity of water , muriatic acid gas is disengaged with violent ebullition , the water is decomposed , and it is evident that for every volume of hydrogene disengaged in combination with the chlorine , half a volume of oxygene must be combined with the phosphorus ; and the products of the muSupposing Ioo cubical inches of the gas to weigh 27 grains.-27 4.5 the weight of zoo cubical inches of hydrogene = 22.5 grains .
t This mode of estimation is the same as that I have adopted on a former occasion , except that the number representing oxygene is doubled to avoid a fractional part .
tual decomposition of water , and the phosphoric compounds of chlorine are merely the phosphoric acid from the sublimate and the phosphorous acid from the liquor , and muriatic acid gas ; so that the quantity of phosphorus being the same , it is evident that phosphoric acid must contain twice as much oxygene as phosphorous acid , which harmonizes with the results of the decomposition of hydrophosphorous acid .
For supposing water to be composed of two proportions of hydrogene , and one of oxygene , and the number representing it 17 ; then 174 parts of hydrophosphorous acid must consist of two proportions ; 34 parts of water , and four proportions of phosphorous acid , containing 80 of phosphorus and 60 of oxygene ; and three proportions of phosphoric acid must be formed , containing three proportions of phosphorus 6o , and six proportions of oxygene go , making 150 .
It is scarcely possible to imagine more perfect demonstrations of the laws of definite combination , than those furnished in the mutual action of water and the phosphoric compounds .
No products are formed except the new combinations ; neither oxygene , hydrogene , chlorine , nor phosphorus is disengaged , and therefore the ratio in which any two of them combine being known , the ratios in which the rest combine , in these cases , may be determined by calculation .
I converted phosphorus into phosphoric acid , by burning it in a great excess of oxygene gas over mercury in a curved glass tube , and heated the product strongly .
I found in several processes of this kind , that for every grain of phosphorus consumed , four cubical inches and a half of oxygene gas were absorbed ; which gives phosphoric acid as composed of 20 of phosphorus to 3o.6 of oxygene ; a result as near as can be expected to the 410o results of the experiments on the sublimate and the lydrophosphorous acid .
Unless the product of the combustion of phosphorus is strongly heated in oxygene , the quantity of oxygene absorbed is less , so that it is probable that phosphorous acid is formed , as well as phosphoric acid .
Phosphorous acid is usually described , in chemical authors , as a fluid body , and as formed by the slow combustion of phosphorus in the air ; but the liquid so procured is , I find , a solution of a mixture of phosphorous and phosphoric acids .
And the vapour arising from phosphorus in the air at common temperatures , is a combination of phosphorous acid and the aqueous vapour in the air , and is not , I find , perceived in air artificially dried .
In this case , the phosphorus becomes covered with a white film , which appears to be pure phosphorous acid , and it soon ceases to shine .
A solid acid , volatile at a moderate degree of heat , may be produced by burning phosphorus in very rare air , and this seems to be phosphorous acid free from water ; but some phosphoric acid , and some yellow oxide of phosphorus , are always formed at the same time .
The peculiar gas differs exceedingly from phosphoretted hydrogene formed by the action of earths and alkalies and phosphorus upon water ; for this last gas is spontaneously inflammable , and its specific gravity is seldom more than half as great , and it does not afford more than i.5 its volume of hydrogene when decomposed by potassium ; it differs in its qualities in different cases , and probably consists of different mixtures of hydrogene with a peculiar gas , consisting of 2 parts of hydrogene and 41 ts of phosphorus ; or it must contain several proportions of hydrogene to one of phosphorus .
I venture to propose the name hydrophosphoric gas for the new gas ; and according to the principles of nomenclature , I have proposed in the last Bakerian lecture , the liquor containing 20 of phosphorus to 67 of chlorine may be called pbosphorane , and the sublimate pbospborana .
3 .
Of some Combinations of Sulpbur .
I have shown , in a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 181o , that sulphuretted hydrogene is formed by the solution of sulphur-in hydrogene , and I have supposed that sulphureous acid , in like manner , is constituted by a solution of sulphur in oxygene .
There is always a little condensation of volume in experiments on the combustion of sulphur in oxygene ; but this may fairly be attributed to some hydrogene loosely combined in the sulphur ; and to the production of a little sulphuric acid by the mutual action of hydrogene , oxygene , and sulphur .
It is only necessary , if these data be allowed , to know the difference between the specific gravity of sulphureous acid gas and oxygene , and sulpluretted hydrogene and hydrogene , to determine their composition .
In the Philosophical Transactions for 18o1 , page 54 , I have somewhat under-rated the weights of sulphuretted hydrogene and sulphureous acid gasses : for I have since found , that the cubical inch measures , employed for ascertaining the volumes of gas weighed , were not correct .
From experiments which I think may be depended upon , as the weights of the gasses were merely compared with those of equal volumes of common air , I found that 1 oo cubical inches of sulphureous acid gas weighed 68 grains 412 mean temperature and pressure , and ioo cubical inches of sulphuretted hydrogene 36.5 grains , and the last result agrees very neairly with one given by MM .
GAY LussAC and THENARD , and one gained by my brother Mr. JOHN DAVY .
If 3 , the weight of 1oo cubical inches of oxygene gas , be subtracted from 68 , it will appear that sulphureous acid consists of equal weights of sulphur and oxygene , an estimation which agrees very nearly with one given by M. BERZELIUS ; and if 22*7 , ,the weight of loo cubical inches of hydrogene be subtracted from 36.5 , the remainder 3I.23 .
will be the quantity of sulphur in the gas ; and the .
number representing sulphur may be stated as 3o ; and sulphureous acid as composed of one pr portion of sulpur 30 , and two of oxygene o0 ; and sulphuretted hydrogene as composed of one proportion of sulphur , and two of hydrogene .
From the experiments of MM .
GAY LUSSAC , it appears that sulphuric acid decomposed by heat affords one volume of oxygene to two of sulphureous acid : from this it would appear to be composed of one proportion of sulphur to three of oxygene .
I have endeavoured , in several trials by common heat and by electricity , to combine sulphureous acid gas with oxygene , so as to form a sulphuric acid free from water , but without success ; and it is probable , that three proportions of oxygene cannot be combined with one proportion of sulphur , except by the intermedium of water .
Mr. DALTON has supposed , that there is a solid sulphuric acid formed by the action of sulphureous acid gas upon nitrous acid gas .
But I find , that when dried sulphureous acid gas and nitrous acid gas are mixed together , there is no action ; but by introducing the vapour of water , they form together a solid crystalline hydrat ; which when tilrown into water gives off nitrous gas , and forms a solution of sulphuric acid .
I have referred , in the Philosophical Transactions , to the combination of chlorine and sulphur .
I have been able to form no compound of these bodies , which does not deposit sulphur by the action of water .
When sulphur is saturated with chlorine , as in Dr. TIIHMSON 's sulphuretted liquor , it appears to contain , from my experiments , only 67 of chlorine to So of sulphur .
4 .
Some general Observations .
It is a fact worthy of notice , that phosphoric and sulphuric acids should contain the same quantity of oxygene to the same quantity of inflammable matter ; and yet that the oxygene should be combined in them , with such different degrees of affinity .
Phosphorous acid has a great tendency to unite with oxygene , and absorbs it even from water : and sulphureous acid can only retain it when water is present .
The relation of water to the composition of many bodies has already occupied the attention of some distinguished chemists , and is well worthy of being further studied ; most of the substances obtained by precipitation from aqueous solutions are , I find , compounds of water .
Thus zircona , magnesia , silica , wh n precipitated and dried at 2 s ?
still contain defitrite proportions of water .
And many of the substances which have been considered as metallic oxides , t tat I have examined , obtained troam solutions , agree in tils respect ; and their colours and other properties are materially influenced by this combined water .
I shall give an instance .
The substance which has been called the white oxide of manganese is a compound of water and the 414 protoxide of manganese , and when heated strongly , it gives off its water and becomes a dark olive oxide .
It has been often suspected , that the contraction of volume produced in the pure earths by heat , is owing to the expulsion3 of water combined with them .
The following fact seems to confirm this suspicion , and offers a curious phenomenon .
Zircona , precipitated from its solution in muriatic acid by an alkali , and dried at a temperature below 30oo appears as a white powder , so soft as not to scratch glass .
When heated to 70Q ?
or 800 , water is suddenly expelled from it , and notwithstanding the quantity of vapour formed , it becomes at the moment red hot .
After the process , it is found harsh to the feel , has gained a tint of gray , its parts cohere together , and it is become so hard as to scratch quartz .

