XV .
Some Observations and Experiments on the Papyri found in the ruins of Herculaneum .
By Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , Bart. P. R. S. Read March 15 , 1821 .
IN a paper intended for private circulation only on the MSS .
found in the excavations made at Herculaneum , but which was published , by mistake , in the Journal of Science and the Arts , I have described , in a general manner , the circumstances which led me to make experiments on these remains , and mentioned some of my first observations on this subject .
Mr. HAMILTON , to whom this communication was sent , entered into my views with all that ardour for promoting the progress of useful knowledge which so peculiarly belongs to his character , and on his representation of them , the Earl of LIVERPOOL and Viscount CASTLEREAGH , with the greatest liberality , placed at my disposal such funds as were requisite for paying the persons whom it was necessary to employ in trying new chemical methods of unrolling the MSS .
and for examining and preserving them when unrolled ; and his present MAJESTY , then PRINCE REGENT , graciously condescended to patronize the undertaking .
In this communication , I shall do myself the honour of laying before the Royal Society an account of all that I have been able to do on this subject ; namely , first , a detail of my early experiments in England on fragments of papyri , which induced me to believe that chemistry might afford considerable assistance towards unrolling the MSS .
Secondly , a description of the rolls in the Museum at Naples , and of some analytical experiments I made upon them .
Thirdly , a detail of the various chemical processes carried on in the Museum at Naples on the MSS .
, and of the reasons which induced me to renounce my undertaking before it was completed .
And lastly , some general observations on the MSS .
of the ancients .
I trust these matters will not be found wholly devoid of interest by the Society , and that they will excuse some repetitions of what I have stated in the report before referred to , as they are necessary for a complete elucidation of the subj ect .
ist .
An account of some experiments made in England on fragments of papyri in i818 .
In examining , chemically , some fragments of a roll of papyrus found at Herculaneum , the leaves of which adhered very strongly together , I found that it afforded , by exposure to heat , a considerable quantity of gaseous matter , which was principally inflammable gas , and when acted on by muriatic or nitric ether , it coloured them ; and when it was exposed to heat after the action of these fluids , there was an evident separation of the leaves of the MS .
Chlorine and iodine , it is well known , have no action upon pure carbonaceous substances , and a strong attraction for hydrogen ; and it occurred to me , that these bodies might with propriety be used in attempting to destroy the matter which caused the adhesion of the leaves , without the possibility of injuring the letters on the papyri , the ink of the ancients , as it is well known , being composed of charcoal .
192 Having through the polite assistance of Sir THOMAS TYRWHITT procured some fragments of papyri on which Dr. SICKLER , and some on which Dr. HAYTER had operated , and by the kindness of Dr. YOUNG a small portion of a MS .
which he had himself unsuccessfully tried to unroll , I made some experiments upon them , by exposing them to the action of chlorine and the vapour of iodine , heating them gently after the process .
These trials all afforded more or less hopes of success .
When a fragment of a brown MS .
in which the layers were strongly adherent , was placed in an atmosphere of chlorine , there was an immediate action , the papyrus smoked and became yellow , and the letters appeared much more distinct ; and by the application of heat the layers separated from each other , giving off fumes of muriatic acid .
The vapour of iodine had a less distinct action , but still a sensible one ; and it was found that by applying heat alone to a fragment in a close vessel filled with carbonic acid or the vapour of ether , so as to raise the heat very gradually , and as gradually to lower it , there was a marked improvement in its texture , and it was much more easily unrolled .
Even in these preliminary trials , I found that it was necessary to employ only a limited'and small quantity of chlorine , too large a quantity injuring the texture of the layer , and decomposing the earths which it contained ; and that the action of heat was much more efficacious when the MS .
had previously been exposed to chlorine , as the muriatic acid vapour formed greatly assisted the separation of the leaves , and a smaller degree of heat was required .
But in all the trials , I found the success absolutely depended upon the manner in which the temperature was regulated .
When the 193 fragment was too rapidly heated , the elastic fluid disengaged usually burst the folds of the MS .
and when the heat was lowered too suddenly , the layers sometimes split in irregular parts , probably from the sudden contraction consequent on quick cooling .
From the products of the distillation of these fragments , which were water , acetous acid , ammonia , carbonic acid , and much inflammable gas , I inferred , that the papyri to which they belonged must contain much undecomposed vegetable matter , and could not be purely carbonaceous ; but as there were great differences in the appearances even of the few papyri in England , which had been presented to his Majesty GEORGE IV .
when PRINCE OF WALES , an opinion on this subject was more likely to be correct when formed after an examination not only of all the MSS .
found at Herculaneum , but likewise of the circumstances of the excavations made there ; and I had an opportunity , during the time I remained at Naples , in two successive winters , to satisfy my mind on this subject , and to obtain the information which will be given in the next Section .
edly .
On the state of the MSS .
found at Herculaneum .
The persons who have the care of the MSS .
found at Herculaneum , state that their original number was 1696 , and that 431 have been operated upon or presented to foreign governments , so that 1s65 ought to remain ; but amongst these , by far the larger proportion are small fragments , or specimens so injured and mutilated , that there is not the least chance of recovering any portion of their contents ; and when I first examined the rolls in detail in January , 1819 , it did not appear to me , that more than from 8o to 120 offired proper subjects for experiments ; and this estimate , as my researches proceeded , appeared much too high .
These MSS .
had been objects of interest for nearly 70 years ; the best had long ago been operated upon , and those remaining had not only undergone injuries from time , but likewise from other causes , such as transport , rude examination , and mutilations for the purpose of determining if they contained characters .
The appearances of different rolls were extremely various .
They were of all shades of colours from a light chesnut brown to a deep black ; some externally were of a glossy black , like jet , which the superintendants called " varnished ; " several contained the umbilicus or rolling stick in the middle converted into dense charcoal .
I saw two or three specimens of papyri which had the remains of characters on both sides , but in general one side only was written upon .
In their texture they were as various as in their colours ; the pale brown ones in general presented only a kind of skeleton of a leaf , in which the earthy matter was nearly in as large a proportion as the vegetable matter , and they were light , and the layers easily separated from each other .
A number of darker brown ones which , from a few characters'discovered in opening them , appeared to be Latin MSS .
, were agglutinated as it were into one mass ; and when they were opened by introducing a needle between the layers , spots or lines of charcoal appeared where the folds had been , as if the letters had been washed out by water , and the natter of which they were composed deposited on the folds .
Amongst the black MSS .
a very few fragments MDcccxx , .
Cc 195 presented leaves which separated from each other with considerable facility , and such had been for the most part operated upon ; but in general the MSS .
of this class were hard , heavy , and coherent , and contained fine volcanic dust within their folds .
Some few of the black and darker brown MSS .
, which were loose in their texture , were almost entirely decayed , and exhibited on their surface a quantity of brown powder .
The persons to whom the care of these MSS .
is confided , or who have worked upon them , have always attributed these different appearances to the action of fire , more or less intense , according to the proximity of the lava , which has been imagined to have covered the part of the city in which they were found ; but this idea is entirely erroneous , that part of Herculaneuin being , as I satisfied myself by repeated examinations , under abed of tufa formed of sand , volcanic ashes , stones , and dust , cemented by the operation of water ( probably at the time of its action in a boiling state ) .
And there is great reason to conclude , that the different states of the MSS .
depend upon a gradual process of decomposition : the loose chesnut ones probably not having been wetted , but merely changed by there-action of their elements , assisted by the operation of a small quantity of air ; the black ones , which easily unroll , probably remained in a moist state without any percolation of water ; and the dense ones , containing earthy matter , had probably been acted on by warm water , which not only carried into the folds earthy matter suspended in it , but likewise dissolved the starch and gluten used in preparing the papyrus and the glue of the ink , and distributed them through the substance of the MSS .
, and some of these rolls 196 had probably been strongly compressed when moist in different positions .
The operation of fire is not at all necessary for producing such an imperfect carbonization of vegetable matter as that displayed by the MSS : Thus , at Pompeii , which was covered by a shower of ashes that must have been cold , as they fell at a distance of seven or eight miles from the crater of Vesuvius , the wood of the houses is uniformly found converted into charcoal ; yet the colours on the walls , most of which would have been destroyed or altered by heat , are perfectly fresh , and where papyri have been found in these houses , they have appeared in the form of white ashes , as of burnt paper ; an effect produced by the slow action of the air penetrating through the loose ashes , and which has been impeded or prevented in Herculaneum by the tufa , which , as it were , has hermetically sealed up the town , and prevented any decay , except such as occurs in the spontaneous decomposition of vegetable substances , exposed to the limited operation of water and air ; for instance , peat and Bovey coal .
The results of the action of heat upon the different specimens of the papyri , proved likewise , that they had never before been exposed to any considerable degree of temperature .
Various specimens of papyri were heated to dull redness in a small covered crucible of platinum to which air had no access .
Some of the chesnut and most perfect specimens lost nearly half their weight , and the very black ones , and those containing the largest quantity of white ashes , all lost more than one-third , as the following results , selected from a number , will show : 197 No. 1 .
ico parts of a pale chesnut papyrus lost 45 parts .
No. .
loo parts of a decomposed papyrus , chesnut-coloured , but darker , lost 4 .
No. 3 ioo parts of a very black papyrus lost 42 .
No. , .
ioo parts of a pale papyrus , extremely loose in texture and partly converted into white ashes , lost t 41 No. 5 .
100 parts of another of the sante kind lost 38 .
When the whole of the carbonaceous and vegetable matter of the papyrus was destroyed by slow combustion , the white ashes remaining , which were principally carbonate of lime and lime , proved to be from Xto 2- !
of the original weight of the papyrus ; and in those specimens which were most dense , and that contained a white powder , the proportion of ashes was greater , and a larger quantity was insoluble in acids Ammonia was found in the products of all the papyri that I distilled , but least in those which contained no distinct characters ; from which it is probable that it arose principally from decomposed glue used in the manufacture of the ink , and which had been principally dissolved and carried off in those papyri which had been most exposed to the action of water .
I ascertained , that what the Neapolitans called varnish , was decomposed skin , that had been used to enfold some of the papyri , and which by chemical changes had produced a brilliant animal carbonaceous substance ; this substance afforded abundance of ammonia by distillation , and left ashes containing much phosphate of lime .
Sdly .
An acount of the experiments on Papyri , made in the Museum at Naples .
Only one method , and that a very simple mechanical one , has been adopted for unrolling the MSS .
It was invented by Padre PIAGGI , a Roman , and consists in attaching thin animal membrane by a solution of glue to the back of the MSS .
and carefully elevating the layers by silk threads when the glue is dry .
In considering this method in its general application , some circumstances occurred to me which afforded an irnmediate improvement .
A liquid solution of glue had been used , which , when the texture of the MSS .
was loose or broken , penetrated through three or four layers , and these , when the glue dried , separated together .
To obviate this objection , I mixed the solution of glue with a sufficient quantity of alcohol to gelatinize it ; and a mixture of the jelly and the fluid being made and applied by a camel 's hair brush , a film of jelly remained on the exterior of the surface of the leaf , which attached itself to the membrane .
The effect of the solution of glue applied in the ancient method , was always likewise to separate the layers , by expanding the imperfectly carbonized fibres .
In the improvement I have mentioned , the alcohol , from its greater lightness , penetrated farther into the papyrus , but produced its greatest effect immediately on the first layers .
I adopted in some cases ether , as an agent for assisting the separation of the layers ; and it was always found very efficacious , whether it was necessary to remove a single 199 layer , or several layers at a time , in order to discover if a roll contained characters .
The ether was applied by a camel 's hair brush lightly to the surface of the leaf , when its operation was intended to be merely on that leaf ; and it was suffered to sink deeper according as more layers were to be separated ; the mere circumstances of its evaporation , which in some cases I assisted by heat , tended to detach the layers .
For the black MSS .
I employed sulphuric ether , and for the brown ones muriatic or nitric ether in their impure states , i. e. mixed with much alcohol .
No artificial modes had been employed by the Neapolitans for drying the papyrus in the operation of attaching the membrane , and no means , except mechanical ones , of detaching it after it was dried .
By throwing a stream of air gradually warmed till it attained a temperature about that of boiling water upon the surface of the leaf , I succeeded not only in drying the layers with much greater rapidity , but likewise in separating them with more delicacy .
I tried different modes of heating the air to be thrown upon the papyrus , such as passing it in a spiral metallic tube through warm water or oil by a double bellows , and from a large bladder through a straight tube having a very fine orifice , and heated by a copper ball surrounding the body of the tube , and exposed to burning charcoal ; which last method , from its simplicity , I found the one best fitted to the Neapolitan operators .
By sending the stream of air from a greater or smaller distance , so that it mixed with more or less cold air , the degree of temperature applied was regulated at pleasure .
It was always found necessary to suffer a few minutes to elapse after 200 the membrane was attached , and then to begin with a very slight increase of temperature ; as otherwise , by too sudden an application of heat , the membrane shrivelled before it became adherent , and the vapour suddenly raised destroyed its union with the papyrus ; whereas , when the moisture was suffered to drain from the gelatinized glue , and the temperature was gradually raised , the expansion of the skin and the upper layer separated them perfectly from the lower layers , so that the unrolling was performed , as it were , by chemical means ; and an operation , which hitherto had required some hours for its completion , was easily effected in from 30 to 40 minutes .
I tried several experiments , by substituting solution of resins in alcohol and of gums in water for the gelatinized solution ; but none of them answered so well ; the resins would not adhere with any tenacity to the membrane , and the gums , when dried , had not that flexibility , which is an important character in the glue .
The alterations in the mode of applying and drying the membrane used to detach and preserve the leaves of MSS .
capable of being unrolled , applied generally ; I shall now mention the plans I adopted for the preparation of the MSS , for this operation .
MSS .
in different states required a treatment of a directly opposite kind , which was to be modified according to circumstances .
The pale chesnut-coloured , MSS .
, covered partially with white ashes , were generally of a texture so loose , and had their layers so destroyed , that there was considerable danger of their falling into pieces by mere touching .
The characters that remained in many of them were extremely distinct ; and when a number of layers were taken up at 201 once , it appeared as if they presented perfect columns of writing ; but the fact is , the papyrus was full of holes , and each line was made up of letters from several different folds of the MS .
VWhen the process of unrolling these papyri was performed in the common way , the result obtained appeared , till it was examined minutely , a perfect column ; but was in fact made up of the letters of different words .
I endeavoured to obtain the fragments of a single leaf attached to a layer of membrane by applying a solution of caoutchouc in ether to the surface of a MS .
, so as to supply the parts of the leaf destroyed ; but operating in this way , I obtained only a few characters , and never an entire word ; so that after various unsuccessful trials , I was obliged to give up the MSS .
of this description as hopeless ; more than Iof their contents probably being always destroyed , and that in so irregular a way as to leave no entire sentences , or even words .
On two brown MSS .
, which were firm in their texture , and had the appearance of peat , and the leaves of which would not separate by common means , I tried the experiment of heating , after they had absorbed a small quantity of chlorine ; and I found that in both cases the leaves detached themselves from each other , and were easily unrolled ; but these MSS .
had been so penetrated by water , that there were only a few folds which contained words , and the letters were generally erased , and the charcoal which had composed them was deposited on the folds of the MSS .
Of the black MSS .
, of which the layers were perfect and easily separated , all the best specimens had been unrolled or operated upon , so that fragments only of this description remained .
By assisting the operation of detaching the layers by muriatic ether and the other processes mentioned in page 199 , many parts of columns were obtained from several of the fragments , by which some idea of their contents may be formed .
On the black compact and heavy MSS .
which contained white earthy matter in their folds , I tried several experiments , with the hopes of separating them into single layers , both by the action of muriatic and nitric ether , and by the operation of chlorine and of weak hydrofluoric acid , assisted by heat ; but generally the fibres of the papyrus had been so firmly cemented together , and so much earthy matter had penetrated them , that only a very imperfect separation could be obtained , and in parts where vestiges only of letters appeared , so that from MSS .
of this kind only a few remains of sentences could be gained .
During the two months that I was actively employed in experiments on the papyri at Naples , I had succeeded , with the assistance of six of the persons attached to the Museum , and whom I had engaged for the purpose , in partially unrolling 23 MSS .
, from which fragments of writing were obtained , and in examining about 1 20others , which afforded no hopes of success ; and I should gladly have gone on with the undertaking , from the mere prospect of a possibility of discovering some better results , had not the labour , in itself difficult and unpleasant , been made more so , by the conduct of the persons at the head of this department in the Museum .
At first every disposition was shown to promote my researches ; for the papyri remaining unrolled were considered by them as incapable of affording any thing legible by the former methods , or , to use their own word , disperati ; and the efficacy and use of the new processes were fully allowed by the Svolgatori or unrollers of the Museum ; and I was for some time permitted to choose and operate upon the specimens at my own pleasure .
When , however , the Reverend PETER ELMSLEY , whose zeal for the promotion of ancient literature brought him to Naples for the purpose of assisting in the undertaking , began to examine the fragments unrolled , a jealousy , with regard to his assistance , was immediately manifested ; and obstacles , which the kind interference of Sir WILLIAM A'COURT was not always capable of removing , were soon opposed to the progress of our enquiries ; and these obstacles were so multiplied , and made so vexatious towards the end of February , that we conceived it would be both a waste of the public money , and a compromise of our own characters , to proceed .
4thly .
Some general observations .
The Roman MSS .
found in the Museum , are in general composed of papyrus of a much thicker texture than the Greek ones , and the Roman characters are usually larger , and the rolls much more voluminous ; the characters of the Greek MSS .
, likewise , with a few exceptions , are more perfect than those of the Latin ones .
From the mixture of Greek characters in several fragments of Latin MSS .
, and from the form of the letters and the state of decomposition in which they are found , it is extremely probable that they were of a very ancient date when buried .
I looked in vain amongst the MSS .
and on the animal charcoal surrounding them , for vestiges of letters in oxide of 204o iron ; and it would seem from these circumstances , as well as from the omission of any mention of such a substance by Pliny , that the Romans , up to his period , never used the ink of galls and iron for writing : and it is very probable , that the adoption of this ink , and the use of parchment , took place at the same time .
For the ink composed of charcoal and solution of glue can scarcely be made to adhere to skin ; whereas the free acid of the chemical ink partly dissolves the gelatine of the MSS .
, and the whole substance adheres as a mordant ; and in some old parchments , the ink of which must have contained much free acid , the letters have , as it were , eaten through the skin , the effect being always most violent on the side of the parchment containing no animal oil .
The earliest MSS .
probably in existence on parchment , are those codices rescripti , discovered by Monsignore MY , in the libraries of Milan and Rome .
Through his politeness I have examined these MSS .
, particularly that containing some of the books of Cicero de Republica , and which he refers to the second or third century .
From the form of the columns , it is very probable that they were copied from a papyrus .
The vegetable matter which rendered the oxide of iron black is entirely destroyed , but the peroxide of iron remains ; and where it is not covered by the modern MSS .
, the form of the letter is sufficiently distinct .
Monsignore MY uses solution of galls for reviving the blackness .
I have tried several substances for restoring colour to the letters in ancient MSS .
The triple prussiate of potash , used in the manner recommended by the late Sir CHARLES BLAGDEN , with the alternation of acid , I have found successful ; but by making a weak solution of it with a small quantity of muriatic acid , and by applying them to the letters in their state of mixture with a camel 's hair pencil , the results are still better .
It is remarkable , that no fragments of Greek , and very few only of Latin poetry , have been found in the whole collection of the MSS .
of Herculaneum ; and the sentences in the specimens we , unrolled , in which Mr. ELMSLEY was able to find a sufficient number of words to infer their meaning , * show that the works , of which they are the remains , were of the same kind as those before examined , and belonged to the schools of the Greek Epicurean philosophers and sophists .
Nearly iooo columns of different works , a great part unrolled under the superintendence of Mr. HAYTER , and at the expense of his present Majesty GEORGE IV .
have been copied and engraved by the artists employed in the Museum ; but from the characters of the persons charged with their publica .
tion , there is very little probability of their being , for many years , offered to the world ; which is much to be regretted ; for though not interesting from their perfection as literary works , they would unquestionably throw much light upon the state of civilization , letters and science , of the age and country to which they belonged .
Should discoveries of MSS .
at any future time be made at Herculaneum , it is to be hoped that the papyri will be immediately excluded from the atmosphere , by being put into air-tight cases , filled with carbonic acid after their introduction .
There can be no doubt that the specimens now in the Museum , were in a much better state when they were first discovered ; and the most perfect even , and those the coarsest in their texture , must have been greatly injured during the 69 years that they have been exposed to the atmosphere .
I found that a fragment of a brown MS .
kept for a few weeks in a portion of air confined by mercury , had caused the disappearance of a considerable part of the oxygene , and the formation of much carbonic acid .
PLATE XI .
Fig. i. represents a papyrus partly unrolled , with the ink-stand and reed for writing used by the ancients .
Fig. 2 .
represents a box of papyri ; both copied from the Pitture antiche d'Ercolano .
" PLATE XII .
Fig. 1 .
is a specimen of an unrolled papyrus , which is so destroyed , that the letters of different columns appear through the folds , as if they formed one column .
Figs. 2 and 3 .
are specimens of fragments , in which the lines begin with Greek capitals .
PLATE XIII .
Contains a specimen of a fragment of a Roman MS .
of which the characters are partly Greek .
207 PLATE XIV .
Contains specimens of fragments ot a Greek MS .
PLATE XV .
Contains specimens of fragments of another Greek MS .
PLATE XVI .
Contains specimens of fragments of a MS .
in Roman capitals .
PLATE XVII .
Contains specimens of MSS .
supposed to be Roman , written in peculiar characters .
PLATE XVIII .
Fig. i. Specimen of a fragment of a MS .
, of which the characters have not been yet examined .
Fig. e. Specimen of a fragment of a Greek MS .
.7_UZ .
" , zrsa ?
.MDCC C=XXI .
Zt &amp; , XI.p .
So .
- .
-212\CEDTE-1~-4~'NN-3 / 7/ / / ~h / ~ , Avxf6^%,.-t .
, / e _ 1_11 __ 11_1_ I:= I.1 I 1 r/ /az , .
7 m'/ ? .
C ( MD CC CXXI.7/ ./ :ei'f XH[./ . .
, ( 7. .
___ _ ... ... ... ... ... .
_ .
4 ; 'y / .
, rl'.tk .
NO - ' -1 Oi t.XO Y TC--YT-%1 &amp; K--N1-i U l\C --coy ( , 'c bc X 53 cj LV fo ANta j os CPVcHc ] &lt; )3 I , ,ol C ; CN rA\ 5 3.r XE fr L ~72 IY-( OE1oy E~^NTcYTTiU ; M YIEJ r &amp; NC ) ~ICX i i,11 II li t / , / i. .
IQA ii ... . .
/ /I../ I 1t i I I)r/ d/ os.vIhwA~z.r.M~AD C CC(7XXL/ ?rte , IXWIA n. z.R _ eTF1NjONCYi ?
'\'^\N T--TIANN N CN(i dVJ -r_21 -H- , l cr Y-----T cA pI t , t.x.-rlO , Y.NT'.-c- ... ..3 __ YoY_--n : rs'---Y " J^A &gt; 'TlKHChlTOC----CI r LW_.AV ---o- ' E----X XtCAlNO eZ '- .
c L ... .-l.X N1 o(co -rTC1en I ^T%Nr cc LA)PA yp 1 JCN t CY}TLo Tlcrn ( tN r( )T7 To-rY roroY 'Al e iZ c 0A I VKp ToTc TJ PI I'\ XK ( E A= B-ror c-1 er $e( N / rrboTAc } ^^re o eTo^ rArpl a &lt; Y.M0 N F &gt; E NA r)W oT of \nA -I -l"-.1.1 II .
, .
" ... ... ... ... .
I. " 7. .
--.---~ ?
--------~-------------~---------- ?
-~-----------------~ ; ; ; ---------------I II 11 fI Ii IIII Iil , IIIiII -1 , Y.'f/ ... , / ; , .
Y ?
:I I i " 7)"iF .
* 7 , i iTDCCC -XI ... t -X p.2Y .
7-II )7Ll &gt; ( to p rZ c fe E &lt; &gt; --o CIII rN-'o IN N-o &gt; C N e. O)Ce TAo:r ~ Y/ .
-j-^ s. -^ .
j r-N - &lt; o ce verr -I-rt eco cr AKAi .
' - .
J.NNE fI E( -TTCN Ir &amp; mx " c AN q 7+1 ? ?
1 AA^0n7 -er-A-Y -J A AC N - ' rrJN -NeTT1T AN-JNAA &lt; iCo &gt; o 0 bAtC Ht , --I---AC _LA_Sf IY !
-ooC &gt; 1 ?
... .
It TA ---cc 1Crs -cA ' -TO STON nRA 11I ___ _~ -_ _______ __ _____ _~___ ________ _I IIj I ' 1I i !
.i i t : : I I Z/ li/ otZ .
' .
-7 ; LwV. .
MD CC C ( X LI .
te , XVI.x so .
QO .
NSI dQRD\TS\ UINFIJ SL TIN OS8kL---V2\ 5I-L MJi5 .
7jX2j:i X'O I\ I.7V..-..)P\ &gt; 1 2 ) LNk .
I.AVT &amp; X %CX &gt; C s , d ... v..1..^ ... ... t.i I ; -h1 ?
R 1 F ?
ii ; --T- , , &amp; p , i / , / )a.u 1i IU 11 _I_I II I J. y.i- ' , / , .
, ' ' " .
I ' .
, .
BhtaUaS ~J~i~- , ~y~ COG CSFtSsgmL~I~.~I .
~ ?
zaB 1 , K cc c= c c_. .
_cc cc ===c -A 1 &lt; ?
o ?
i9 r SrX r vtDr , VW rt r 17 'j VC--^----^ ' '^------| i , ' ' ' JC^ r^Tsrfr^ !
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ;~ ^^^"J^ ^U.A---w =:c.______C------- ... . .
~12/ , , " / / f7II/ 9 ~/ N I ~L - ) N r%q 0 e ; N ' N ; r f'Nj~ -.~9 / 1-N'l &gt; O 0~ J4T / 1 , o kL a4 00 - !
r~~l.)w a ?
- ' 2d I.1 *I IIIr 11. .
w^^/ I / /^~~--i *goz r/ 'j6n X }.'O^X'^^-^~

