The Bakerian Lecture .
On some of the Combinations of Oxymuriatic Gas and Oxygen , and on the chemical Relations of these Principles , to inflammable Bodies .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. LL. D. Sec. R.S. F.R.S.E. M.R.I.A. and M.R.I. Read November 15 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 1 .
] Mr. Davy , having in his last communication to the Society expressed his belief that the substance called oxymuriatic acid gas has not yet been decompounded , but is simple , as far as our present knowledge extends , and having been confirmed in that opinion by subsequent experiments , endeavours , on the present occasion , to select such experiments as tend to illustrate more fully the nature , properties , and combinations of this substance with inflammable bodies , and compares its properties with those of oxygen , to which he considers it as bearing the closest analogy .
When potassium is exposed to oxymuriatic gas , the intensity of their mutual attraction occasions spontaneous inflammation .
Ten grains of potassium absorb about eleven inches of the gas ; and they form a neutral compound , which is the same as muriate of potash which has been ignited .
When this metal or sodium are burned in oxygen gas , the combustion is much less vivid , since their attractions for oxygen are feebler than for oxymuriatic gas ; and the alkalies , potash , and soda , are formed in a state of extreme dryness ; but under certain circumstances they are liable to combine with an excess of oxygen , and to become peroxides , as observed by Messrs. Gay-Lussac and Thenard .
The oxides , when newly formed , being perfectly dry , require a strong red heat to fuse them .
When small quantities of water are added to them , they heat violently , and are converted into hydrates that are easily fused , and are in a certain degree volatile .
By ignition they do not lose the whole of the water , but retain a portion , as has been observed by MI .
Berthollet and M. D'Arcet .
Mr. Davy 's method of ascertaining the quantity of water retained , was by means of the boracic acid , previously dried by heating to whiteness for nearly an hour ; and he found about 16 per cent. in potash , and about 23 in soda .
But when potassium , or potash recently prepared from potassium , was employed , and combined with dry boracic acid , no moisture whatever was extracted .
It is evident , therefore , that common potash and soda are hydrates , and that the compounds formed by the combustion of the alkaline metals are pure metallic oxides , free from water .
If one grain of potassium be burned in oxygen gas it absorbs half a cubical inch , and if the oxide so formed be subsequently exposed to oxymuriatic gas , then one and one eighth cubic inch of this gas are absorbed , and the half cubic inch of oxygen is extricated .
When dry potash , or peroxide of potassium , are heated in oxymuriatic gas , no moisture is extricated , excepting when the gas itself contains aqueous vapour .
But when muriatic acid gas was introduced 2 c to potash formed by the combustion of potassium , then water was instantly formed , and oxymuriate of potassium .
The phenomena when sodium or soda are employed , are precisely analogous to the former ; but the quantity of oxygen absorbed by sodium , and extricated from it by oxymuiriatic gas , is very nearly twice as much as with potassium .
When two parts of potassium are heated with common salt that has been previously dried , the salt is decompounded ; and one part of sodium is obtained in a very pure state by an extremely easy process .
From the experiments on sodium contained in the last Bakerian lecture , Mr. Davy deduces the elementary number 22 , as representing the proportion in which it unites with different bodies .
He observes also , that the proportions ascertained on the present occasion to exist in the hydrates of potash and of soda , accord with the supposition that they each contain one part of water , combined with one of the respective alkali .
The proportions also of potash or soda in different neutral combinations by these estimates ( says Mr. Davy ) , will be found to agree very nearly with those derived from the most accurate analyses ; and as one instance , he refers to Dr. Marcet 's analysis of muriate of soda .
Since the muriates of barytes , lime , and strontia , when thoroughly dried by exposure to a white heat , are not decomposable by boracic acid , or by any simple attractions , Mr. Davy was led to suppose that they consisted of their peculiar metallic bases , combined with oxymuriatic gas ; and he is confirmed in this opinion by the result of other experiments ; for when these earths are heated to redness in oxymuriatic gas , the same dry muriates are formed , and oxygen is expelled .
The proportion which this oxygen bears to each earth , Mr. Davy has not yet ascertained ; but he found it to be in the constant ratio of one to two in volume of the oxymuriatic gas employed .
When dry quick-lime was heated in muriatic gas , water was immediately formed ; and it can hardly be doubted , says Mr. Davy , that this arose from the union of hydrogen from the acid with oxygen from the lime .
The author next endeavoured to obtain the metals of barytes , strontia , and lime , from their muriates by means of potassium ; and though he did not succeed in separating them , he is of opinion that either the bases of the earths were wholly or partially deprived of oxymuriatic gas by this process , or that the potassium had entered into triple union with their muriates .
When small portions of the common metals were heated in oxymuriatic gas , they each inflamed , with the exception of gold , silver , and lead .
The product from arsenic was butter of arsenic highly volatile ; that from antimony was butter of antimony easily fused , but crystallized when cold .
Those from tellurium , zinc , and bismuth , were very similar to the preceding .
The product from mercury was corrosive sublimate .
The compound formed with iron was of a bright brown , iridescent , like the Elba iron ore , volatile at a very moderate heat , and forming brilliant crystals on the sides of the vessel .
Tin afforded Libavius 's liquor , having its usual properties .
When instead of the metals themselves their oxides were exposed to the action of oxymuriatic gas , oxygen was given off , in most cases at a heat below redness ; and the quantity was the same as had been previously absorbed by the metals .
From the whole of the present series of experiments , Mr. Davy derives confirmation of his former opinion respecting the simple nature of oxymuriatic gas , the leading property of which is its tendency to unite with inflammable bases , forming binary compounds .
Since its affinity is in most cases greater than that of oxygen , it either produces the expulsion of the oxygen , or causes it to enter into new combinations .
He considers the oxygen that is expelled to arise from the oxide , because it is in proportion to the quantity which the oxide contained , and bears no relation to the quantity of acid .
If the oxymuriatic gas consisted of any acid matter combined with oxygen , its acidity , says Mr. Davy , should appear when it is united to phosphorus .
But when two parts of this gas are combined with one of phosphorus , the compound has no effect on litmus paper , and does not act on dry lime or dry magnesia .
But by union with hydrogen it forms an acid ; in the same manner oxygen communicates acid properties to sulphur and phosphorus .
Although its affinities are in general superior to those of oxygen , Mr. Davy notices some exceptions .
For instance , the boracic and phosphoric acids are not decomposed by it ; and the same appears to be the case with the peroxides of iron and arsenic .
Of all the different bodies supposed to be elementary , nitrogen is that which has the weakest tendencies to combination in general ; and it does not hitherto appear to have any affinity for oxymuriatic gas .
With respect to the simple or compound nature of nitrogen , Mr. Davy has not yet arrived at any satisfactory conclusion , although the general result of his attempts to decompose it has shown an apparent evolution of hydrogen , and other effects which could only be ascribed to the presence of oxygen .
But , on the contrary , the numerical expression for nitrogen , which corresponds to 13'4 , does not accord with any simple proportion of oxygen and hydrogen ; and this , together with other circumstances , occasion Mr. Davy to resist the inference of its being decompounded .
The author concludes with reflections on the nomenclature of oxymuriatic gas , and its compounds ; since it appears to him that an alteration is necessary to assist the progress of discussion , and to diffuse just ideas on the subject .
It is to be regretted that the great discoverer of this substance did not originally affix to it a simple name to which we might now recur ; but his term dephlogisticated can hardly be adopted in the present state of science .
2c Mr. Davy , preferring some name founded upon one of its obvious and characteristic properties , proposes chloric gas , which does not imply any error , and would not require to be changed , even if it should hereafter be discovered to be a compound .
For expressing the compounds of this substance with other bodies , he is not disposed to employ the same term , but proposes adding to each base the terminal syllable in , which is to imply the presence of the chloric base .
Thus horn silver is to be called argentine ; butter of antimony , antimonine , &amp;c. He conceives also , that by means of vowels prefixed to the name , the proportion in which this body is combined with others may be conveniently expressed .

