The Bakerian Lecture for 1809 .
On some new Electrochemical Researches , on various Objects , particularly the metallic Bodies , from the Alkalies , and Earths , and on some Combinations of Hydrogen .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. , Sec. R.S. F.R.S.E. M.R.I.A. Read November 16 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 16 .
] Mr. Davy having from the commencement of his electro-chemical researches , communicated the several steps of his progress to the Society , takes the present opportunlity of reporting the results of his further inquiries under four principal heads .
First , on the nature of the metals of the fixed alkalies .
Second , on the nature of hydrogen and composition of ammonia .
Thirdly , on the metals of the earths ; and , Fourthly , he makes a comparison between the antiphlogistic doctrine , and a modified phlogistic hypothesis .
When Mr. Davy first communicated to us his discoveries of potassium and sodium , he adopted , as most probable , the antiphlogistic interpretation of the phenomena , and considered potassium and sodium as simple metallic bodies , of which potash and soda are the oxides .
The same experiments have since been repeated by others with the same results , but the explanations given by different chemists have been various .
The theory which has appeared most deserving the author 's notice , and is more particularly controverted , is that of Messrs. Gay-Lussac and Thenard , who conceive these metals to be compounds of their respective alkalies with hydrogen ; although in the interpretation of their own production of a metallic substance from boracic acid , they relapse again into the antiphlogistic doctrine , and suppose themselves to have effected a decomposition , by abstraction of oxygen from it .
Since the principal experiment on which Messrs. Gay-Lussac and Thenard rely , is that in which ammonia is acted upon by potash , Mr. Davy details a great number of modes in which he has varied the experiment with the utmost care to avoid moisture , which appears to have misled the French chemists , and with the most scrupulous attention to the products .
When the experiment is conducted in tubes of iron , there is always a conversion of a portion of potassium into potash , a loss of nitrogen , and a production of hydrogen ; but when platina or copper tubes are employed , the quantity of potassium remains the same , there is no loss of nitrogen , but there is a loss greater or less of hydrogen .
The explanation suggested for this difference is , that an affinity of these metals for potassium may prevent its attracting oxygen from the ammonia .
For the decomposition of ammonia , sodium seems preferable to potassium , on account of the greater facility of employing it free from moisture ; as the latter oxidates more rapidly at the surface , while transferring from one vessel to another , and more rapidly attracts moisture when oxidated .
Mr. Ritter founds the same opinion , that hydrogen is a constituent part of potassium and sodium , upon a singular circumstance that he has observed respecting tellurium ; for he finds that this is the only metal by which potassium cannot be procured , when it is used as the conductor of voltaic electricity ; and he ascribes the difference to the affinity of tellurium for hydrogen being stronger than that of potash .
From many experiments which Mr. Davy has made upon tellurium , and upon its alloys with potassium , he finds that tellurium unites with hydrogen as a solid hydruret of tellurium ; -that it unites with a larger proportion of hydrogen as telluretted hydrogen , ( a gas very analogous to sulphuretted hydrogen ) ; that this gas combines with potash , forming a compound , corresponding to hydro-sulphuret of potash , and communicating to water a deep purple or claret colour .
After having thus ascertained the properties of tellurium , he found that when potash is acted upon by a very powerful battery , by means of a surface of tellurium at the negative pole , an alloy of tellurium and potassium is formed , which has the colour of nickel ; when this alloy is thrown into water , the hydrogen , which in other instances is given off with effervescence , is not , in this case , extricated , but uniting with the tellurium , forms a hydro-telluret of potash , which communicates its purple colour to the water .
When a fusible alloy of potassium and tellurium was heated in ammoniacal gas , the permanent elastic fluid generated was nitrogen , not hydrogen , as is the case when potassium is employed alone ; and this is considered by Mr. Davy as a proof , that in each instance the gas is derived from the ammonia and not from the metal , as the French chemists have supposed .
If the metals of potash and soda contained hydrogen , then water should be formed when they are burned .
But when potassium is burned in close vessels in dry oxygen gas , or when sodium has been burned even in the open air , they do not yield hydrogen by being heated with filings of iron or of zinc , and they give no other indication of the presence of moisture .
But in order to compare potassium with its corresponding quantity of potash in such state , as is allowed to be perfectly dry , according to the latest experiments of the most celebrated chemists , Mr. Davy converted eight grains of potassium into muriate of potash , by burning it in muriatic acid gas .
Now , according to the experiments of Berthollet , recently published , eight grains of potash would make just twelve grains of muriate of potash , by the addition of four grains of acid .
But the eight grains of potassium received an increase of six grains and a half , making fourteen grains and a half of dry muriate of potash , of which 4-1%wths must be acid , according to Berthollet 's estimation , and consequently there are 9 ths of oxygen added to the potassium instead of hydrogen being extricated from it .
The endeavours of the author were next directed to obtaining more direct evidence of the composition or decomposition of nitrogen than he had hitherto done ; and though his results have been mostly negative , he details a number of laborious and minute experiments , which he conceives may be of importance in settling various questions of doctrine that have been agitated .
Since nitrogen has been supposed to be produced during the decomposition of water by electricity , Mr. Davy has repeated that experiment by means of the powerful battery of the Royal Institution , kept in continual action for nearly two months , the product of gas being exploded about 340 times during the experiment ; but the total quantity of permanent gas which remained , was not quite one quarter of a cubic inch , and this residuum was hydrogen , which may easily be referred to a slight oxidation of the wires of communication .
Other attempts were also made to form nitrogen or nitric acid from pure water , but all were unsuccessful .
Wires of platina were fused by voltaic electricity in oxygen gas , saturated with moisture ; with the hope , that at so high a temperature the water might combine with more oxygen ; but this did hot occur .
The vapour of water was passed over red-hot manganese , but no acid could thus be obtained , except by employing an unglazed porcelain tube , which was permeable to atmospheric air .
Since the formation of ammonia from pyrophori in various substances , appeared to indicate a formation of nitrogen , many such cases were examined ; but it was found that the production of ammonia always depended upon the previous absorption of nitrogen by the charcoal present in such pyrophori .
With a view to decompose nitrogen , potassium was intensely heated in that gas by voltaic electricity , but without success .
Phosphuret of lime was next substituted for potassium , but the nitrogen was not decomposed .
Nitrogen was next mixed with oxymuriatic acid , and passed through a red-hot tube , without effecting any decomposition .
Notwithstanding such a want of conformation by any new processes , the original grounds for supposing oxygen present in ammonia remain .
The amalgam produced from ammonia , which yields ammonia again by apparent oxidation , might lead to the inference that both hydrogen and nitrogen are oxides ; but from the action of potassium on ammonia , it would rather appear that nitrogen alone is in that instance decomposed .
But there is great difficulty in reasoning upon the precise nature of this amalgam , on account of the presence of water , which it is at least extremely difficult to avoid , as the amalgam cannot be formed in dry ammoniacal gas , nor by means of any dry compound of ammonia yet tried .
The driest amalgam is that formed by an alloy in which potassium is also present .
In endeavouring to distil ammonium from this compound , there is always a partial regeneration of ammonia mixed with about one third hydrogen ; and if the proportion of oxygen contained in ammonia be inferred from this product , it would appear to be fortyeight per cent. , -a result which agrees with the quantity which might be presumed to exist in ammonia , from the proportion in which it unites with acids .
But if the proportion of hydrogen to ammonia thus evolved be less than that of one to two , the results will not accord ; and then , says Mr. Davy , it may reasonably be supposed that hydrogen and nitrogen are both oxides , either of the same metal or of different metallic bases .
But if , instead of endeavouring to accommodate our general antiphlogistic notions to the peculiar facts respecting ammonia , we endeavour to frame a phlogistic hypothesis to account for them , we must then suppose nitrogen to be a simple basis , which becomes alkaline with one dose of hydrogen ; and metallic , by uniting with some greater proportion of the same element .
The author next details a variety of experiments , made on several of the earths , for the purpose of decomposing them .
The metals of silica , alumina , and glucine , were obtained in alloy with iron ; but it appeared that these metals could not be made either in direct coinbination with mercury , or as a triple alloy with mercury .
and potassium .
By passing potassium , however , through the alkaline earths , lime and magn'esia , and afterwards introducing mercury , solid triple amalgams were obtained .
The triple amalgam from magnesia was easily deprived of its potassium by means of water ; and it then appeared as a solid white metallic mass , which by long exposure to air was covered with a crust of magnesia .
This section concludes with speculations on the probable quantity of oxygen contained in the earths , founded on Mr. Dalton 's law of chemical union by simple particles , which appears to Mr. Davy more near the truth than that modification of it lately observed by / I. Gay-Lussac .
The concluding section of the lecture contains some theoretic considerations on the nature of hydrogen in particular , and on the whole class of simple substances in general .
The fact of hydrogen uniting with tellurium and with sulphur into compounds apparently acid , it is observed , militate strongly against its being simple ; and Mr. Davy inclines to consider it an oxide , of which the base exists in the amalgam of ammonium .
Ammonia will then be the deutoxide of the same base , and nitrogen the tritoxide .
The class of pure inAfl-atables will or this antiphiloistic hypo thesis be all metallic ; some of them being as yet known only in combination , as those of sulphur , of phosphorus , and some others .
But a phlogistic hypothesis might also be framed , so as to account for all the phenomena with equal facility ; the principal argument in favour of it being derive(l from the easy reduction of metals in presence of hydrogen .
The ultimate predominance of one or the other hypothesis must , in the author 's estimation , depend upon the nature of ammonia , of which the supposed elements do not present phenomena analogous to those of other simple bodies .
Sulphur , for instance , whether combined with hydrogen or with oxygen , has acid properties ; but nitrogen combined with one of those bodies is an alkali , and with the other an acid ; so that in nitrate of ammonia , nitrogen is neutralized by nitrogen .
Mr. Davy finally adduces some new facts which accord with Mr. Dalton 's hypothesis respecting the apparent union of ultimate atoms in a given relation by weight ; and he also mentions some new instances in conformity to the observation of M. Gay-Lussac , that the differentl compounds of gaseous bodies are related in simple arithmetical proportions by measure .

