was made negative , a vivid and constant light appeared at the opposite point : there was no effect of inflammation round it ; but aeriform globules , which inflamed in the atmosphere , rose through the potash .
The platina , as might have been expected , was considerably acted upon ; and in the cases when it had been negative , in the highest degree .
The alkali was apparently dry in this experiment ; and it seemed probable that the inflammable matter arose from its decomposition .
The residual potash was unaltered ; it contained indeed a number of dark grey metallic particles,.but these proved to be derived from the platina .
I tried several experiments on the electrization of potash rendered fluid by heat , with the hopes of being able to collect the combustible matter , but without success ; and I only attained my object , by employing electricity , as the common agent for fusion and decomposition .
Though potash , perfectly dried by ignition , is a nonconductor , yet it is rendered a conductor , by a very slight addition of moisture , which does not perceptibly destroy its aggregation ; and in this state it readily fuses and decomposes by strong electrical powers .
A small piece of pure potash , which had been : exposed for a few seconds to the atmosphere , so as to give conducting power to the surface , was placed upon an insulated disc of platiIla , connected with the negative side of the battery of the power of 250 of 6 and 4 , in a state of intense activity ; and a platina wire , communicating with the positive side , was brought in contact with the upper surface of the alkali .
The whole apparatus was in the open atmosphere .
Under these circumstances a vivid action was soon observed to take place .
The : potash began to fuse at both its points of electriZation .
There was a violent effervescence at the upper surface ; at the lower , or negative surface , there was no liberation of elastic fluid i but small globules having a high metallic lustre , and being precisely similar in visible characters to quicksilver , appeared , some of which burnt with explosion and bright flame , as soon as they were formed , and others ; remained , and were merely tarnished , and finally covered by a white film which formed on their surfaces .
These : globules , numerous experiments soon showed to be the substance I was in search of , and a peculiar inflammable principle the basis of potash .
I found that the platina was in no way conrlected with the result , except as the medium for exhibiting the electrical powers of decomposition ; and a substance of the same kind was produced when pieces of copper , silver , gold , plumbago , or even charcoal were employed for completing the circuit .
The phenomenon was independent of the presence of air ; I foundf hat it took place when the alkali was in the vacuum of an exhausted receiver .
The substance was likewise produced from potash fused by means of a lamp , in glass tubes confined by mercury , and furnished with hermetically inserted platina wires by which the electrical action was transmitted .
But this operation could not be carried on for any considerable time ; the glass ' was rapidly dissolved by the action of the alkali , and this substance soon penetrated through the body of the tube .
' Soda , when acted upon in the same manner as potash , exlhibited an analogous result ; but the'decomposition deianded 5 greater intensity of action in the batteries , or the alkali was required to be in much thinner and smaller pieces .
With the battery of 0oo of 6 inches in full activity I obtained good results from pieces of potash weighing from 40 to 70 grains , and of a thickness which made the distance of the electrified metallic surfaces nearly a quarter of an inch ; but with a similar power it was impossible to produce the effects of decomposition on pieces of soda of more than 15 or so grains in weight , and that only when the distance between the wires was about 8 or i of an inch .
The substance produced from potash remained fluid at the temperature of the atmosphere at the tirie of its production ; that from soda , which was fluid in the degree of heat of the alkali during its formation , became solid on , cooling , and appeared having the lustre of silver .
When the power of eSo was used , with a very high charge for the decomposition of soda , the globules often burnt at the moment of their formation , and sometimes violently exploded and separated into smaller globules , which flew with great velocity through the air in a state of vivid combustion , producing a beautiful effect of continued jets of fire .
III .
Theory of the Decomposition of the fixed Alkalies ; their Composition , and Production .
As in all decompositions of compound substances which I had previously examined , at .
the same time that combustible bases were developed at the negative surface in the electrical circuit , oxygene was produced , and evolved or carried into combination at the positive surface , it was reasonable to conclude that this substance was generated in a similar manner by the electrical action upon the alkalies ; and a number of experiments made above mercury , with the apparatus for excluding external air , proved that this was the case .
When solid potash , or soda in its conducting state , was included in glass tubes furnished with electrified platina wires , the new substances were generated at the negative surfaces ; the gas given out at the other surface proved by the most delicate examination to be pure oxygene ; and unless an excess of water was present , no gas was evolved from the negative surface .
In the synthetical experiments , a perfect coincidence likewise will be found .
I mentioned that the metallic lustre of the substance from potash immediately became destroyed in the atmosphere , and that a white crust formed upon it .
This crust I soon found to be pure potash , which immediately deliquesced , and new quantities were formed , which in their turn attracted moisture from the atmosphere till the whole globule disappeared , and assumed the form of a saturated solution of potash.* When globules were placed in appropriate tubes containing common air or oxygene gas confined by mercury , an absorption of oxygene took place ; a crust of alkali instantly formed upon the globule ; but from the want of moisture for its solution , the process stopped , the interior being defended from the action of the gas .
With the substance from soda , the appearances and effects were analogous .
When the substances were strongly heated , confined , in given portions of oxygene , a rapid combustion with a brilliant white flame was produced , and the metallic globules were found converted into a white and solid mass , which in the case of the substance from potash was found to be potash , and in the case of that from soda , soda .
Oxygene gas was absorbed in this operation , and nothing .
emitted which affected the purity of the residual air .
The alkalies produced were apparently dry , or at least contained no more moisture than might well be conceived to exist in the oxygene gas absorbed ; and their weights considerably exceeded those of the combustible matters consumed .
The processes on which these conclusions are founded will be fully described hereafter , when the minute details which are necessary will be explained , and the proportions of oxygene , and of the respective inflammable substances which enter into union to form the fixed alkalies , will be given .
It appears then , that in these facts there is the : same evidence for the decomposition of potash and soda into oxygene and two peculiar substances , as there is for the decomposition of sulphuric and phosphoric acids and the metallic oxides into oxygene and their respective combustible bases .
In the analytical experiments , no substances capable of decomposition are present but the alkalies and a minute portion of moisture ; which seems in no other way essential to the result , than in rendering them conductors at the surface : for the new:substances are not generated till the interior , which is dry , begins to be fused ; they explode when in rising through the fused alkali they come in contact with the heated moistened surface ; they cannot be produced from crystallized alkalies , which contain much water ; and the effect produced by the electrization of ignited potash , which contains no sensible quantity-of water , confirms the opinion of their formation independently of the presence of this substahce .
The combustible bases of the fixed alkalies seem to be repelled as other combustible substances , by positively electrified surfaces , and attracted by negatively electrified surfaces , and the oxygene follows the contrary order ; * or the oxygene being naturally possessed of the negative energy , and the bases of the positive , do not remain in combination when either of them is brought into an electrical state opposite to its natural one .
In the synthesis , on the contrary , the natural energies or attractions come in equilibrium with each other ; and when these are in a low state at common temperatures , a slow combination is effected ; but when they are exalted by heat , a rapid union is the result ; and as in other like cases with the production of fire.-A number of circumstances relating to the agencies of the bases of the alkalies will be immediately stated , and will be found to offer confirmations of these general conclusions .
See Bakerian Lecture I8o6 , page 28 Phil. Trans. for 1807 .
IV .
On the Properties and Nature of the Basis of Potash .
After I had detected the bases of the fixed alkalies , I had considerable difficulty to preserve and confine them so as to examine their properties , and submit them to experiments ; for , like the alkahests imagined by the alchemists , they acted more or less upon almost every body to which they were exposed .
The fluid substance amongst all those I have tried , on which I find they have least effect , is recently distilled naphtha.- In this material , when excluded from the air , they remain for many days without considerably changing , and their physical properties may be easily examined in the atmosphere when they are covered by a thin film of it .
The basis of potash at 60o FAHRENHEIT , the temperature in which I first examined it , appeared , as I have already mentioned , in small globules possessing the metallic lustre , opacity , and general appearance of mercury ; so that when a globule of mercury was placed near a , globule of the peculiar substance , it was not possible to detect a difference by the eye .
At 60 ?
FAHRENHEIT it is however only imperfectly fluid , for it does not readily run into a globule when its shape is altered ; at 70 ?
it becomes more fluid ; and at ioo*0 its fluidity is perfect , so that different globules may be easily made to run into one .
At 50o FAHRENHEIT it becomes a soft and malleable solid , which has the lustre of polished silver ; and at about the freezing point of water it becomes harder and brittle , and when broken in fragments , exlhibits a crystallized texture , which in the microscope seems composed of beautiful facets of a perfect whiteness and high metallic splendour .
To be converted into vapour , it requires a temperature approaching that of the red heat ; and When the experiment is conducted under proper circumstances , it is found unaltered after distillation .
It is a perfect conductor of electricity .
When a spark from the VOLTAIC battery of i oo of 6 inches is taken upon a large globule in the atmosphere , the light is green , and combustion takes place at the point of contact only .
When a small globule is used , it is completely dissipated with explosion accompanied by a most vivid flame , into alkaline fumes .
It is an excellent conductor of heat .
Resembling the metals in all these sensible properties , it is however remarkably different from any of them in specific gravity ; I found that it rose to the surface of naphtha distilled from petroleum , and of which the specific gravity was.861 and it did not sink in double distilled naphtha , the specific gravity of which was about.770 , that of water being considered as i. The small quantities in which it is produced by the highest electrical powers , rendered it very difficult to determine this quality with minute precision .
I endeavoured to gain approximations on the subject by comparing the weights of perfectly equal globules of the basis of potash and mercury .
I used the very delicate balance of the Royal Institution , which when loaded with the quantities I employed , and of which the mercury never exceeded ten grains , is sensible at least to the 2-0 of a grain .
Taking the mean of 4 experiments , conducted with great care , its specific gravity at 62 ?
FAHRENHEIT , is to that of mercury as io to S23 , which gives a proportion to that of water nearly as 6 to lo ; so that it is the lightost fluid body C2 1I known " .
, t I , itso sdli &amp; dremitom ist 'a -little heavier butevn ; in this state when cooled to 40o FAHRENts , itSWi:::swinilthe : The chmica i rlations of the basis of : potas arestitl more extraordinary thanitsh ys3ial ones .
I have alrady mentioned its alkalization and cmbustion in ygene ga -I combins with .
oxygene:slowly and:thouet e , iaallnpemrasturews:that ; I have tried belowf that of itsvapoization : Btatt this , temperaturecombustion takes plAce,.and the ltght : is , of a brilliant.whiteness and be the.heat intese .
W.hen , W ated slowly in a quantity yofoxygene gas not sufficient for -its complete eonversion into potash , andif ; i. temperature inadequate to its : inflammation , :0o ?
FAhREN tT , j for instance:its tint , changes to that of a red bro0wn , and.when the , heat , is withdrawn , all the oxygene is .
foundl to he absorbd , and.a:soid is fo , rmed : of a greyish:colour , which : part:y.o sists ?
of po tash : and pTartly-of the , basis : of potash in a lower degee of oxygenation , .
-nd.which beomes pootash being exposed to water , or by being again heated in fresh quantities of air , The , substance consisting of the basis - , of potash !
cobhined wiit ?
anunderproporion of oxygene , may likewise be formed by fusing dry potash and its basis together under proper circumstances ; .--The basis ' rapidly loses its ' metallic.splendor ; the'two:substances.unite into a.mpound , of a:red:brown c.olour.when fluid , and.of a. dark grey hue whenslid ; .
and this compound soon absorbs its -full -proportion , f oxygene ?
when -exposed to the air , and is wholly ' converted into potash .
And the same body : , is often ford in the analytical : experinentsw hlthe action of ' the:eletricity isintense:and th6 potas -ttmuchheated .
The basis of potash when introduced &amp; in-oxy riatiO icd gas burspontaneously with at bright:-red ight ?
and !
a white salt proving to be muriate of potash-is"formed When a globule is heatedin hydrogene:at aegree below its tint of vaporization , it seems toi dissolvein it : orbtthe globuledimminishes in volsume , and the : gas explodes with alkaline fuimes and bright ; light , when suffered t:pass : ito : the air ; but:by cooling , -this spontaneous detonatin pperty is destroyed , : ; and the : basis is either wholly or principally depOsited .
The actioni of the bais : O potash on -water exposed to -te atmfosphere is connected with some beautiful pheomena .
When it is thrown , upon wate , or when it is brought intocon tact With ; a drop of water at common temperatures , it leconi p , ose s'it withi great violtece ; an instantaneous exploson produced with brilliant flame , and a solution of pure potashis the iresult .
In experiments of this kind , an appearance often occurs similarto that produced by the combustion of phosphuretted hydrogene ; a : white ring of smoke , which gradually extends as it rises into the air .
When water is made to act upon the basis of potash out of the contact of air and preserved by ' means of a glass tube uhtder naphtha , the decomposition is violent ; and there is much heat:and noise but no luminous appearance , and the gas evolved when examined in the mercurial or water pneumatic , ppa-atus is found to be pure hydrogene .
'When a globule of the basis of potash is placed upon ice it 1i instantly burns with a bright flame , and adeep holeis made in the ice , which is found to contain a solution of potash : The theory of the action of the basis of.potah -upon water exposed to the atmosphere , though complicated changes occur , is far from being obscure .
The phenomena seem to depend on the , strong attractions of the basis for oxygene:ai d of the potash formedo -r water- .
The heat , which arises fomtwo ca4uses dcomposiion and combinati , is:suiely inse to produce the inflammation .
Water is a-badtoniductorofheat ; the globuleaswims exposed toair ; aipart of i , there is the greatest reasoln:ibelieve , is dissoved bythe hated nasnt hydrogene ; and:this substance being caable of spontaieous inflammati0n , explodes , and commnmicates the ffect of combustion : to any of the basis that may bieyet uncombined : When a globule confined out of the:contact pf airisted uponby , water , the theory of decomposition is -ery simple , the heat : produced is rapidly carried o o : tht the reisi : no ignition ; and a high temperaturebeing requisite fr the ; soltion of the basis in hydrogene this : combinationprobablyoes not take place , or at least it can ; have::-aa momentary existence only .
The production of alkali in the decomposition of Watei by the basis of potash is demonstrated in a very sitple and satisfactory manner by dropping a globule of it -on mo:istened paper tinged with turmeric .
At the -mom'nt thatthe globule comes into contact with the water , it , burns ; : , nd ioves rapidly upon the paper , as , if in searchof moisture , leving behind it a deep reddish brown trace , and acting upon the ipper precisely as dry caustic potash .
So strong is the attraction of the basis of potash fo:-Oygene , and so great te energy of its action upon water , that it discovers anddlecomposes the small quantities of water contained in alcohol and ether , even when they are earemfully purified. .
In ether this decomposition is connected with an instructive result .
Potash is -insoluble in this fluid ; and ; when the basis of potash is thrown into it , oxygeneis furnished to it , and hydrogene gasn:disengaged , and the alkali -ait forms reders the -f ether whiteand turbid .
Inr both these inflamm able compounds the::energy of its action ; is poprtional to the quantity of water they contain , and , hyidrogene and potashkare the constant result .
Thebasis of potash whn thrown into solutions of the mineral a ?
ids , :inflames and burns : on the surface .
When it iplunged:by bproper means beneath the surface enveloped in potash ; :surrounded by naphtha , it acts upon the oxygene with greatet.intensity , and all its effects are such as may be-aexpained:from its strong affinity for this substance .
In sudphur:i acid a white saline substance with a yellow coating , which is prbably sulphate of potash surrounded by sulphur , and a gas which has the smell of sulphureous acid , and which proably ia a mixture of::that substance with hydrogene gas , are foed In nitrous:acid , nitrous gas is disengaged , and nitrate of potash formed .
The basis of potash readily combines with the simple inflammabl solids , -:and with the metals ; with phosphorus and sulphur , it forms compounds similar to the metallic phosphurets-and sulphurets .
When it is brought in contact with a piece of phosphorus , and pressed upon , there is a considerable action : they become 15 fluid together , burn , and produce phosphate of potash .
When the experiment is made under naphtha , their.combination takes place without the liberation of any elastic matter , and they .
form a compound which has a considerably higher point of fusion than its two constituents , and which remains a soft solid in boiling naphtha .
In its appearance it perfectly agrees with a metallic phosphuret , it is of the colour of lead , and when spread out , has a lustre similar to polished lead .
When exposed to air at common temperatures , it slowly combines with oxygene , and becomes phosphate of potash .
When heated upon a plate of platina , fumes exhale from it , aid it does not burn till it attains the temperature of the rapid combustion of the basis of potash .
When the basis of potash is brought in contact with sulphur in fusion , in tubes filled with the vapour of naphtha , they combine rapidly with the evolution of heat and light , and a grey substance , in appearance like artificial sulphuret of iron , is formed , which if kept in fusion , rapidly dissolves the glass , and becomes bright brown .
When this experiment is made in a glass tube hermetically sealed , no gas is liberated if the tube is opened under mercury ; but when it is made in a tube connected with a mercurial apparatus , a small quantity of sulphuretted hydrogene is evolved , so that the phenomena are similar to those produced by the union of sulphur with the metals in which sulphuretted hydrogene is likewise disengaged , except that the ignition is stronger.* When the union is effected *The existence of hydrogene in sulphur , is rendered very probable by the ingenious researches of M. Berthollet Jun. Annals de Chimic , I'vrier 1807 page 143 .
The fact is almost demonstrated by an experiment which I saw made by V. Clayfield , Esq. at Bristol , in 1799 .
Copper filings and powdered sulphur , in weight in the proportion of three in the atmosphere , a great inflammation takes place , and sulphuret of potash is formed .
The sulphuretted basis likewise gradually becomes oxygenated by exposure to the air , and is finally converted into sulphate .
The new substance produces some extraordinary and beautiful results with mercury .
When one part of it is added to 8 or io parts of mercury in volume at 60 ?
FAHRENHEIT , they instantly unite and form a substance exactly like mercury in colour , but which seems to have less coherence , for small portions of it appear as flattened spheres .
When a globule is made to touch a globule of mercury about twice as large , they combine with considerable heat ; the compound is fluid at the temperature of its formation ; but when cool it appears as a solid metal , similar in colour to silver .
If the quantity of the basis of potash is still farther increased , so as to be about -t the wot mrcr the weigt of the mercury , the amalga icreases i hardness , and becomes brittle .
The solid amalgam , in which the basis is in the smallest proportion , seems to consist of about 1 part in weight of basis and 70 parts of mercury , and is very soft and malleable .
When these compounds are exposed to air , they rapidly absorb oxygene ; potash which deliquesces is formed ; and in a few minutes the mercury is found pure and unaltered .
When a globule of the amalgam is thrown into water , it to one rendered very dry , were heated together in a retort , connected with a mercurial pneumatic apparatus .
At the moment of combination a quantity of elastic fluid was liberated amounting to 9 or lo times the volume of the materials employed , and which consisted of sulphuretted hydrogene mixed with sulphureous acid .
The first mentioned product , there is every reason to believe , must be referred to the sulphur , the last probably to the copper , which it is easy to conceive may have become slightly and superficially oxidated during the processes of filing and drying by heat .
rapidly'd-conmposes it with a hiss nis e ; potash is fomed , pure hydrogene disengaged , and the mercary remais fre , The fluid amalgam of mercury and this substance di-ssQes all the'etals I have exposed to it ; and in this:tate of union , mercury acts on ; iron ; and platina .
When the basis of potash is heated with gold , or silver , or copper , in a cos vessel-:of pure glass , it rapidly acts ipon them ; and when the compounds are thrown intQo wate , thW fiuid is decomposed , potash formed , and the : metals appear to be separated unaltered .
The basis of potash combines with fusible metal , and forms an alloy with it , i which has a higher point of fusion tha , the fusible metal .
The action of the basis of potash upon the inflammable oily compound bodies , confirms thetheoter facts:of the strength , of its attraction for oxygene .
On naphtha colourless and recently.distiled , a ; I have ; already said , it has very little power of action ; but in naphtha that has been exposed to the air it soon oxidates , and alkali .
is formed , which unites with the naphtha into a bromwn:oap that collects round the globule .
On the concrete oils ( tallow , spermaceti , wax , for instance ) , when heated , it acts slowly , coaly matter is deposited , a little gas* is evolved , and a soap is formed ; but in these cases it is ne~essatry that-a large quantity of the oil b-e.employed .
-)On the -fluiid fixd oils , 'it^ produces ' the.same.efects , but.more sek lie .
By heat !
:'likewise it 'rapidly decomposes.:they volatile 'oils .
; alkali is formed , a small quantity of gas is evolved , .
an charoal is deposited .
When the basits:f o:)ash is thro:n:n to camphor in fusion , 'th ca:phior soion ecmes blackeed , no gas--is liberated in thepocess .
of:deomposition , and : sap onaceousl compound is formed ; which seems to show that camphor contains more oygene than the ve : atile , oils .
Thei basisf hpotash readly reduces metallic oxides when heated in contact with them .
When a small quantity of the i.dlB'fi 'won asheated with it , to a temperature approaching itipnt:of-distilltion , there was a vivid action ; alkali and grey metallic particles , which dissolved with effervescence in m-ui atiic acid , appavre &amp; d Tlheoxides of lead and the oxides of tin were-revived &lt; :still more rapidly ; and when the basis of potash was:in eXcess , a : alloy was formed with the revived metal .
In oansquePe of -ithi .
loper tie , the basis of potash readily decomposes &amp; flint glass and green glass , by a gentle heat- ; a':ali iimmie:diatyfortmd by oxygene from the oxides w^hih-dissoltves the glass , and a new surface is soon exposed to tbhe-agent .
basis of potash on the oils .
Some anomalies occurred which led to the inquiry , and the7 result was perfecly conclusive .
Olive oil , oil of trpenth'rlW and naphtha when decomposed by heat , exhibited as products different proportions of charcoal , heavy infiama mable gas , empyreumatic oily matter , and water , so that the existence of oxygene in them was fully proved ; and accurate indications of the proportions of their elements mirht be gained by their decomposition by the basis of potash .
Naphtha of all furnished least water and carbonic acid , and oil of turpentine the most .
BQ , 19 At a red heat , even the purest'glass is altered by the basis of potaff thie oxygene in the alkali of the lass seems'io be divided etween the two:'bases , the basis of ptash:a the alkalineti asis : in the glass , and , in the first de eo'f oxygenation , -are the result . ?
When the basis of .
potash -is heated in tubesr made of plate glass filled with the vapour of naphtha , it first acts upon thesmall quantity of the oxides , of cobalt and manganese in the interior surface of the , glass , and a portion of alkali is formed .
-As the heat approaches to redness , it begins to rise in vapour , and condenses in the colder parts of the tube ; but at the point where the heat is strongest , a part of the vapour seems to penetrate the glass , rendering it of a deep red brown colour ; and by repeatedly distilling and heating the substance in a close tube of this kind , it finally loses its metallic form , 'and a thick brown crust , which slowly decomposes water , and which combines with oxygene when exposed to air forming alkali , lines the interior of the tube , : and in many parts is found penetrating through its substance.* In my first experiments on the distillation of the basis of potash , I had great difficulty in accounting for these phenomena ; but the knowledge of the substance it forms in its first degree of union with oxygene , afforded a satisfactory explanation .
On the .
Properties and Nature of the Basis of Soda .
The , basi Aof soda , as I have already mentioned , is a solid at cormmn : temperatures .
It is white , opaque , and.when ex amined under a fila m of naphtha , has the lustre and general appearance of silver .
It is exceedingly malleable , and is much softer than any of the common metallic substances .
When pressed upon by a platina blade , with a smallforce , it spreads into thin leaves , and a globule of the , -roth or -th of an inch in diameter is easily spread over a surface of a quarter of an inch , g and this property does not diminish when it is cooled to3 2 ?
X FAHRENHEIT .
It condlucts electricity and heat in a similar manner to the basis of potash ; and small globules of it inflame by the voltaic electrical spark , and burn with bright explosions .
Its 'specific gravity is less than that of water .
It swims in oil of sassafras of.o96 , water being , and sinks in naphtha of specific gravity.861 .
This circumstance enabled me to ascertain the point with precision .
I mixed together oil of sassafras and naphtha , which combine very perfectly , observing the proportions till I had composed a fluid , in which it remained at rest above or below ; and this fluid consisted of nearly twelve parts naphtha , and five of oil of sassafras , which gives a specific gravity to that of water , nearly as nine to ten , or more accurately as.9348 to i. The basis of soda has a much higher point of fusion than the basis of potash ; its parts begin to lose their cohesion at * Globules may be easily made to adhere and form one mass by strong pressure : so that the property of welding , which belongs to iron and platina at a white heat only , is possessed by this subntawce at common temperatures .
21 about 2o0 ?
FAHRENHEIT , and it is a perfect fluidat fabout i80 ?
, so that it readily fusses under boiling naphtla .
I have not yet been able to ascertain at what degree of-lkatt it is volatile ; but it remains fixed in a state of ignifi-on ba the point of fusion of plate glass .
The chemical phenomena produced by the basis of sodaa ' re analogous to those produced by the basis of potash- ; hut xith such characteristic differences as might be well exected .
When the basis of soda is exposed to the atmosphere , it immediately tarnishes , and by degrees beeomes covered with a white crust , which deliquesces much -me slowy than the substance which forms on the basis of potash .
Ipr:-It pe sminute examination , to be pure soda .
The basis of soda combines with oxygene slowly , l-.and without luminous appearance at all common temperatttes ; and when heated , this combination becomes more rapid - ; but no ight is emitted till it has acquired ; a -temperature nerly that of ignition .
The flame that it produces in oxygene gas is white , and it sends forth bright sparks , occasioning a veryeautifful- : effit ; in common air , it burns with light of the colour of that produced dufring the combustion of charcoal , but much brighfer .
The basis of soda when heated in hydro.g ense , seemed to have no action upon it .
When introduced into oxymtrriati acid gas , it burnt vividly with numerous scintilIations of a r ; ~'me~II~a t5s woa ts--.-t bright red colour .
Saline matter was formed in this combiistion , which , as might have been expected , proved to be muriate of soda .
Its operation upon water offers most satisfactory evidence of its nature .
When thrown upon this fluid , it produces a violent effervescence , with a loud hissing noise ; it combines with the oxygene of the water to form soda , which is dissolved , and its hydrogene is disengaged .
In:thispperation there is -noluminous appearance ; and it seems probable that even in the nascent state hydrogene is incapable of combining with it .
When the basis of soda is thrown into hot water , the decomposition is more violent , and in this case a few scintillations are generally observed at the surface of the fluid ; but this is owing to small particles of the basis , which are thrown out of the water sufficiently heated , to burn in passing through the atmosphere .
, When , however , a globule is brought in contact with a small particle of water , or with moistened paper , the heat produced ( there being no medium to carry it off rapidly ) is usually sufficient for the accension of the basis .
The basis of soda acts upon alcohol and ether precisely in a similar manner with the basis of potash .
The water that they contain is decomposed ; soda is rapidly formed , and hydrogene disengaged .
The basis of soda , when thrown upon the strong acids , acts upon them with great energy .
When nitrous acid is employed , a vivid inflammation is produced ; with muriatic and sulphuric acid , there is much heat generated , but no light .
When plunged , by proper means , beneath the surface of the acids , it is rapidly oxygenated ; soda is produced , and the other educts are similar to those generated by the action of the basis of potash .
* The more volatile metals only seem capable of uniting with hydrogene ; a circumstance presenting an analogy .
With respect to the fixed and volatile oils and naphtha in their different states , there is a perfect coincidence between the effects of the two new substances , except in the difference of the appearances of the saponaceous compounds formed : those produced by the oxydation and combination of the basis of soda being of a darker colour , and apparently less soluble .
The basis of soda , in its degrees of oxydation , has precisely similar habits with the basis of potash .
When it is fused with dry soda , in certain quantities , there is a division of oxygene between the alkali and the base ; and a deep brown fluid is produced , which becomes a dark grey solid on cooling , and which attracts oxygene from the air , or which decomposes water , and becomes soda .
The same body is often formed in the analytical processes of decomposition , and it is generated when the basis of soda is fused in tubes of the purest plate glass .
There is scarcely any difference in the visible phenomena of the agencies of the basis of soda , and that of potash on sulphur , phosphorus , and the metals , .
t It combines with sulphur in close Vessels --filled with the vapour of naphtha with great vividness , with light , heat , and often with explosion from ; the vaporization Of a portion of sulphur , and the disengagementm of -sulphuretted hydrogene gas .
The sulphuretted basis of soda is of a deep grey colour .
The phosphuret has.the:appearance of lead , and " forms phosphate of soda by exposure to air , or by combustion .
The basis of soda itl thequantity : of x , renders mercury a fixed solid of the colour of silver , and the combination is attended with a considerable degree of heat .
It makes an alloy with tin , without changing its colour , and it acts upon lead and gold when heated .
I have not examined its habitudes , with any other metals , but in its state of alloy , it i , soon ionvrted into soda.by exposure to , air , or by the action of : water , which it decomposes with the:evolution of hydrogene .
The amalgam of mercury and the basis of soda , seems to , form .
triple compounds with other metals. .
I have tried iron and platina , which I am inclined to believe remain in combiation with the mercury , when it is deprived of the new oubstance by exposure to air .
; fThe .
amalgam of the basis of soda and mercury likewise combnes with sulphur and forms a triple compound of a dark grey colour .
VI .
On the Proportions of the peculiar Bases and Oxygene in Potash and Soda .
The facility of combustion of the bases of the alkalies , and the readiness with which they decomposed water , oflered means fully adequate for determining the proportions of their ponderable constituent parts .
I shall mention the general methods of the experiments , and the results obtained by the different series , which approach as near to each other as can be expected in operations performed on such small quantities of materials .
For the process in oxygene gas , I employed glass tubes containing small trays , made of thin leaves of silver or other noble metals , on which the substance to be burnt , after being accurately weighed or compared with .
a globule of mercury , , MDcccvIII .
-E.s equal in size* was placed : the tube was small at one end , curved , and brought to a fine point , but suffered to remain open ; and the other end was fitted to a tube communicating with a gazometer , from which the oxygene gas was introduced , for neither water nor mercury could be used for filling the apparatus .
The oxygene gas was carried through the tube till it was found that the whole of the common air was expelled .
The degree of its purity was ascertained by suffering a small quantity to pass into the mercurial apparatus .
The lower'orifice was then hermetically sealed by a spirit lamp , and the upper part drawn out and finally closed , when the aperture was so small , as to render the temperature employed incapable of materially influencing the volume of the gas ; and when the whole arrangement was made , the combination was effected by applying heat to the glass in contact with the metallic tray .
In performing these experiments many difficulties occurred .
When the flame of the lamp was immediately brought to play upon the glass , the combustion was very vivid , so as sometimes to break the tube ; and the alkali generated partly rose in white fumes , which were deposited upon the glass .
When the temperature was slowly raised , the bases of the alkalies acted upon the metallic tray and formed alloys , and in this state it was very difficult to combine them with their full proportion of oxygene ; and glass alone could not be employed on account of its decomposition by the alkaline bases ; and porcelain is so bad a conductor of heat , that it was not possible to raise it to the point required for the process , without softening the glass .
In all cases the globules of the alkaline bases were carefully freed from naphtha before they were introduced ; of course a slight crust of alkali was formed before the combustion , but this could not materially affect the result ; and when such a precaution was not used , an explosion generally took place from the vaporization and decomposition of the film of naphtha surrounding the globule .
After the combustion , the absorption of gas was ascertained , by opening the lower point of the tube under water or mercury .
In some cases the purity of the residual air was ascertained , in others the alkali formed in the tray was weighed .
From several experiments on the synthesis of potash by combustion , I shall select two , which were made with every possible attention to accuracy , and under favourable circumstances , for a mean result .
In the first experiment 0.12 grains of the basis were employed .
The combustion was made upon platina , and was rapid and complete ; and the basis appeared to be perfectly saturated , as no disengagement of hydrogene took place when the platina tray was thrown into water .
The oxygene gas absorbed equalled in volume 190 grain measures of quicksilver ; barometer being at 29.6 inches , thermometer 62 ' FAHRENHEIT ; and this reduced to a temperature of 60 ?
FAHRENHEIT , and under a pressure equal to that indicated by 30 inches , * would become 186.67 measures , the weight of which would be about.0184 grains troy ; but.ol84:.1384 : : 13.29 : 1oo ; and according to this estimation too parts of potash will consist of 86.7 basis , and 13.3 oxygene nearly .
In the second experiment.07 grains of the basis absorbed at temperature 63 ?
of FAHRENHEIT , and under pressure equal to 3o.1 barometer inches , a quantity of oxygene equal in volume to 121 grain measures of mercury , and the proper corrections being made as in the former case , this gas would weigh.01189 grains .
But as.07 +.01189.08189 : 07 : : 100oo : 85.48 nearly , and ioo parts of potash will consist of 85.5 of basis and 14.5 of oxygene nearly .
And the mean of the two experiments will be 86.1 of basis to 13.9 of oxygene for 1 oo parts .
In the most accurate experiment that I made on the combustion of the basis of soda.08 parts of the basis absorbed a quantity of oxygene equal to 206 grain measures of mercury ; the thermometer being at 56 FAHRENHEIT ; and the barometer at 29.4 ; and this quantity , the corrections being made as before for the mean temperature and pressure , equals about.02 grains of oxygene .
And as.08 +.02 =.lo:.o8 , : oo : 8o , and loo parts of soda according to this estimation will consist of 8o basis to go of oxygene .
In all cases of slow combustion , in which the alkalies were not carried out of the tray , I found a considerable increase of weight , but as it was impossible to weigh them except in the ?
From experiments that I made in 1799 , on the specific gravity of oxygene gas , it would appear that its weight is to that of water as i to 748 , and to that of quicksilver as I to 10i42 .
BResearches Chem. and Phil. p. 9 ; and with this estimation , that deducible from the late accurate researches of Messrs. ALLEN and PEPYS on the Combustion of the Diamond almost precisely agrees .
Phil. Trans. I807 , page 275 .
atmosphere , the moisture attracted rendered the results doubtful ; and the proportions from the weight of the oxygene -absorbed are more to be depended on .
In the experiments in which the processes of weighing were most speedily performed , and in which no alkali adhered to the tube , the basis of potash gained nearly 2 parts for io , and that of soda between 5 and 4 parts .
The results of the decomposition of water by the bases of the alkalies were much more readily and perfectly obtained than those of their combustion .
To check the rapidity of the process , and , in the case of potash , to prevent any of the basis from being dissolved , I employed the amalgams with mercury .
I used a known weight of the bases , and made the amalgams under naphtha , using about two parts of mercury in volume to one of basis .
In the first instances I placed the amalgams under tubes filled with naphtha , and inverted in glasses of naphtha , and slowly admitted water to the amalgam at the bottom of the glass ; but this precaution I soon found unnecessary , for the action of the water was not so intense but that the hydrogene gas could be wholly collected .
I shall give an account of the most accurate experiments made on the decomposition of water by the bases of potash and soda .
In an experiment on the basis of potash conducted with every attention that I could pay to the minutiae of the operations , hydrogene gas , equal in volume to,98 grains of mercury , were disengaged by the action of.o8 grains of the basis of potash which had been amalgamated with about 3 grains .
of mercury .
The thermometer at the end of the process indicated a temperature of 560 FAHRENHEIT , and the barometer an atmospheric pressure equal to 29.6 inches .
Now this quantity of hydrogene* would require for its combustion a volume of oxygene gas about equal to that occupied by 154.9 grains of mercury , which gives the weight of oxygene required to saturate the.o8 grains of the basis of potash at the mean temperature and pressure nearly.o151 grains .
And.o8 +.o0151=.o01:.o8 : : 1oo : 84.1 nearly .
And according to these indications 1oo parts of potash consist of about 84 basis and 16 oxygene .
In an experiment on the decomposition of water by the basis of soda , the mercury in the barometer standing at 30.4 inches , and in the thermometer at 52 ?
FAHRENHEIT , the volume of hydrogene gas evolved by the action of.054 grains of basis equalled that of 326 grains of quicksilver .
Now this at the mean temperature and pressure would require for its conversion into water,.0172 of oxygene , and.o544-.o172==.o712:.054 : : loo : 76 nearly ; and according to these indications , 1oo0 parts of soda consist of nearly 76 basis , and 24 oxygene .
In another experiment made with very great care,.o52 of the basis of soda were used ; the mercury in the barometer was at e9.9 inches , and that in the thermometer at 58 ?
FAHRENHEIT .
The volume of hydrogene evolved was equal to that of 302 grains of mercury ; which would demand for its saturation by combustion , at the mean temperature and pressure.o1549 grains of oxygene ; and 1oo parts of soda , according to this proportion , would consist nearly of 77 basis , and 23 oxygene .
The experiments which have been just detailed , are those in which the largest quantities of materials were employed ; I have compared their results , however , with the results of several others , in which the decomposition of water was performed with great care , but in which the proportion of the bases was still more minute : the largest quantity of oxygene indicated by these experiments was , for potash 17 , and for soda 26 parts in 1oo , and the smallest 13 , and i9 ; and comparing all the estimations , it will probably be a good approximation to the truth , to consider potash as composed of about 6 parts basis and i of oxygene ; and soda , as consisting of 7 basis and : oxygene .
VII .
Some general Observations on the Relations of the Bases of Potash and Soda to other Bodies .
Should the bases of potasll and soda be called metals ?
The greater number of philosophical persons to whom this question has been put , have answered in the affirmative .
They agree with metals in opacity , lustre , malleability , conducting powers as to heat and electricity , and in their qualities of chemical combination .
Their low specific gravity does not appear a sufficient reason for making them a new class ; for amongst the metals themselves there are remarkable differences in this respect , platina being nearly four times as heavy as tellurium ; * and in the philosophical division of the classes of bodies , the analogy between the greater number of properties must always be the foundation of arrangement .
On this idea , in naming the bases of potash and soda , it will be proper to adopt the termination which , by common consent , has been applied to other newly discovered metals , and which , though originally Latin , is now naturalised in our language .
Potasium and Sodium are the names by which I have ventured to call the two new substances : and whatever changes of theory , with regard to the composition of bodies , may hereafter take place , these terms can scarcely express an error ; for they may be considered as implying simply the metals produced from potash and soda .
I have consulted with many of the most eminent scientific persons in this country , upon the methods of derivation , and the one I have adopted has been the one most generally approved .
It is perhaps more significant than elegant .
But it was not possible to found names upon specific properties not common to both ; and though a name for the basis of soda might have been borrowed from the Greek , yet an analogous one could not have been applied to that of potash , for the ancients do not seem to have distinguished between the two alkalies .
The more caution is necessary in avoiding any theoretical expression in the terms , because the new electro-chemical phenomena that are daily becoming disclosed , seem distinctly to show that the mature time for a complete generalization of chemical facts is yet far distant ; and though , in the explanations of the various results of experiments that have been detailed , the antiphlogistic solution of the phenomena has been uniformly adopted , yet the motive for employing it has been rather a sense of its beauty and precision , than a conviction of its permanency and truth .
The discovery of the agencies of the gasses destroyed the hypothesis of STAHL .
The knowledge of the powers and effects of the ethereal substances may at a future time possibly act a similar part with regard to the more refined and ingenious hypothesis of LAVOISIER ; but in the present state of our knowledge , it appears the best approximation that has been made to a perfect logic of chemistry .
Whatever future changes may take place in theory , there seems however every reason to believe that the metallic bases of the alkalies , and the common metals , will stand in the same -arrangement of substances ; and as yet we have no good reasons for assuming the compound nature of this class of bodies.* The experiments in which it is said that alkalies , metallic oxides , and earths may be formed from air and water alone , in processes of vegetation , have been always made in an inconclusive manner ; t for distilled water , as I have endeavoured ?
A phlogistic chemical theory might certainly by defended , on the idea that the metals are compounds of certain unknown bases with the same matter as that existing in hydrogene ; and the metallic oxides , alkalies and acids compounds of the same bases with water ; --but in this theory more unknown principles would be assumed than in the generally received theory .
It would be less elegant and less distinct .
In my first experiments on the distillation of the basis of potash finding hydrogene generally produced , I was led to compare the phlogistic ' hypothesis with the new facts , and I found it fully adequate to the explanation .
More delicate researches however afterwards proved that in the cases when inflammable gasses appeared , water , or some body in which hydrogene is admitted to exist , was present .
t The explanation of VAN HELMONT of his'fact of the production of earth in the growth of the willow , was completely overturned by the researches of WoD w ARD .
Phil. Trans. Vol. XXI .
page .
193 .
to show , * may contain both saline and metallic impregnations ; and the free atmosphere almost constantly holds in mechanical suspension solid substances of various kinds .
In the common processes of nature , all the products of living beings may be easily conceived to be elicited from known combinations of matter .
The compounds of iron , of the alkalies , and earths , with mineral acids , generally abound in soils .
From the decomposition of basaltic , porphyritic , t and granitic rocks , there is a constant supply of earthy alkaline and ferruginous materials to the surface of the earth .
In the sap of all plants that have been examined , certain neutrosaline compounds , containing potash , or soda , or iron , have been found .
From plants they may be supplied to animals .
And the chemical tendency of organization seems to be rather to combine substances into more complicated and diversified arrangements , than to reduce them into simple elements .
The conclusions which M. BRACON NOT has very lately drawn from his ingenious experiments , Annals de Chemie , Fevrier 1807 , page 187 , are rendered of little avail in consequence of the circumstances stated in the text .
I1i the only case of vegetation in which the free atmosphere was excluded , the seeds grew in white sand , which is stated to have been purified by washing in muriatic acd ; but such a process was insufficient to deprive it of substances which might afford carbon , or various inflammable matters .
Carbonaceous matter exists in several stones which afford a whitishor greyish powder ; and when in a stone , the quantity of carbonate of lime is very small in proportion to the other earthy ingredients , it is scarcely acted on by acids .
VIII .
On the Nature of Amnmonia and alkaline Bodies in general ; with Observations on some prospects of Discovery aff , red by the preceding Facts .
Ammonia is a substance , the chemical composition of which has always been considered of late years as most perfectly ascertained , and the apparent conversion of it into hydrogene and nitrogene , in the experiments of SCHEELE , PRIESTLEY , and the more refined and accurate experiments of BERTHOLLET , had left no doubt of its nature in the minds of the most enliglltened chemists .
All new facts must be accompanied however by a trainl of analogies , and often by suspicions with regard to the accuracy of former conclusions .
As the two fixed alkalies contain a small quantity of oxygene united to peculiar bases , may not the volatile alkali likewise contain it ?
was a query which soon occurred to me in the course of enquiry ; and in perusing the accounts of the various experiments made on the subject , some of which I had carefully repeated , I saw no reason to consider the circumstance as impossible .
For supposing hydrogene and nitrogene to exist in combination with oxygene in low proportion , this last principle might easily disappear in the analytical experiments of decomposition by heat and electricity , in water deposited upon the vessels employed or dissolved in the gasses produced .
Of the existence of oxygene in volatile alkali I soon satisfied myself .
When charcoal carefully burnt and freed from moisture was ignited by the VOLTAIC battery of the power of 50o of 6 and 4 inches square , in a small quantity of very pure F2 35 ammoniacal gas:* a great expansion of the aeriform matter took place , and a wliite substance formed , which collected on the sides of the glass tube einployed in the process ; and this matter , exposed to the action of ' diluted muriatic acid , effervesced , so that it was probably carbonate of ammonia .
A process of another kind offered still more decisive results .
In this the two mercurial gazometers of the invention of Mr. PEPYS , described in No XIV .
of the Phil. Trans. for 1807 , were used with the same apparatus , as that employed by Messrs. ALLEN ant PEPYS for the combustion of the diamond , and these gentlemen kindly assisted in the experiment .
Very pure ammoniacal gas was passed over iron wire ignited in a platina tube , and two curved glass tubes were so arranged as to be inserted into a freezing mixture ; and through one of tlese tubes the gas entered into the platina tube , and through the other , it passed from the platina tube into the airholder arranged for its reception .
The temperature of the atmosphere was 55 ?
; but it was observed that no sensible quantity of Water was deposited in the cooled glass tube transmitting the unaltered ammonia , but in that receiving it after its exposure to heat , moisture was very distinct , and the gas appeared in the airholder densely clouded .
The apparatus in which this experiment was made is described in page 214 Journal of the Royal Institution .
The gas was confined by mercury which had been previously boiled to expel any moisture that might adhere to it .
The ammonia had been exposed to the action of dry pure potash , and a portion of it equal in volume to 9og80 grains of mercury , when acted on by distilled water , left a residuum eqlual to 9 grains of mercury only .
So that the gas , there is every reason to believe , contained no foreign seriform matter ; for even the minute residuum may be accounted for by supposing it derived from air dissolved in the water .
This circumstance seems distinctly to prove the formation of water in this operation for the decomposition of ammonia ; unless indeed it be asserted that the hydrogene and nitrogene gasses evolved hold less water in solution or suspension than the ammonia decomposed , an idea strongly opposed by the conclusions of Mr. DALTON* and the experiments of Messrs. DESORMES and CLEMENT.t After the gas had been passed several times through the ignited tube from one gazometer to the other , the results were examined .
The iron wire became converted superficially into oxide , and had gained in weight 4 parts of a grain , about 10 of a grain of water were collected from the cooled glass tubes by means of filtrating paper , and 33,8 cubic inches of gas were expanded irtto 55.3 cubic inches , and by detonation with oxygene it was found that the hydrogene gas in these was to the nitrogene as 3.2 .
to i in voluine , It will be useless to enter into the lmore minilte details of this experiment , as no perfectly accurate data for proportions can be gained from them ; for the whole of the ammonia was not decomposed , and as the gas had been prepared by being sent from a heated mixture of sal amnmoniac and quicklirpe , into the airholder , it was possible that some solution of ammonia might have been deposited , which , by giving out new gas during the operation , would increase the absolute quantity of the material acted upon .
In examining the results off M. BEBTHOLLET'S:j elaborate experiments on the decomposition of ammonia by electricity , Ie Manchester Memoirs , Vol. V. Part II .
page .
535 , 1785 .
t Annals de Chemie , Vol. XLII .
p. 125 .
t Afmoircs de l'Acadmnic , 1785 , page 324 .
87 was surprised to find that the weight of the hydrogene and nitrogene produced , rather exceeded than fell short of that of the ammonia considered as decomposed , which was evidently contradictory to the idea of its containing oxygene .
This circumstance , as well as the want of coincidence betweenl the results and those of PnIESTLEY and VAN MARUM on the same subject , induced me to repeat the process'of the electrization of amllnonia , and I soon found that the quantities of the products in their relations to the apparent quantity of gas destroyed were influenced by many different causes .
Ammonia procured over dry mercury from a mixture of dry lime and muriate of ammonoia , I found deposited moisture upon the sides of the vessel in which it was collected , and in passing the gas into the tube for electrization , it was not easy to avoid introducing some of this moisture , which must have been a saturated solution of ammonia , at the same time .
In my first trials made upon gas , passed immediately from the vessel in which it had been collected into the apparatus , I found the expansion of 1 of ammonia vary in different instances from 2.8 to 2.2 measures , but the proportions of the nitrogene and hydrogene appeared uniform , as determined by detonation of the mixed gas with oxygene , and nearly as 1 to 3 in volume .
To exclude free moisture entirely , I carefully prepared ammonia in a mercurial airholder , and after it had been some hours at rest , passed a quantity of it into the tube for decomposition , which had been filled with dry mercury .
In this case 50 parts became 103 parts by electrization , and there was still reason to suspect sources of error .
I had used iron wires not perfectly free from rust , for taking the spark , and a black film from the mercury appeared on the sides of the tube .
It was probable that some ammonia had been absorbed by the metallic oxides both upon the iron and the mercury , which might again have been given out in the progress of the operation .
I now used recently distilled mercury , which did not leave the slightest film on the glass tube , and wires of platina .
The ammonia had been exposed to dry caustic potash , and proved to be equally pure with that mentioned in page 36 .
60 measures of it , each equal to a grain of water , were electrized till no farther expansion could be produced , the gas filled a space equal to that occupied by 108 grains of water .
The thermometer in this experiment was at 56 ?
, and the barometer at 30.1 inches .
The wire of platina transmitting the spark was slightly tarnished.* The 1o8 measures of gas carefully analyzed , were found to consist of 80 lleasures ill vollumle of llydrogene , and 28 measures of nitrogene .
The results of an experiment that I made il 1799,4t give the weight of 100 cubic inches of ammonia , as 18.18 grains at the mean temperature and pressure .
I had reasons however for suspecting that this estimation might be somewhat too low , and on mentioning the circumstance to Messrs. ALLEN and PEPYS , they kindly undertook the examination of the subject , and Mr. ALLEN soon fiurnished me with the following data .
" In the first experiment 21 cubic inches of ammonia weighed 4.05 grains ; in a second experiment the same quantity weighed 4.o6 grains , barometer 30.65 .
thermometer 54 ?
FAHRENHEIT .
" Now if the corrections for temperature and pressur e'be made for these estimations , and a mean taken , i co cu-icinches of ammonia will:weigh 1867 grains , barometer being at 3o,.and thermometer at 6o FAHRENHEIT ; and if the quantity used in the experiment of decomposition be calculated upon as cubic inches , 6 will weigh li.z grains .
But the hydrogene gas evolved equal to 80 will weigh 1.93 grains , and the nitrogene equal to 8 , tS 8.3 .
And 11 .
, grains 1.-9+8.3 10=o. .
and 11.2 o.2 .
== i , all the estimations being made according to the standard temperature and pressure .
So that in this experiment on the decomposition of ammonia , the weight of the gasses evolved is less by nearlyr than that of the ammonia employed ; and this loss can only be ascribed to the existence of oxygene in the alkali ; part of which probably combined with the platina wires employed for electrization , and part with hydrogene .
After these ideas the oxygene in ammonia cannot well be estimated at less than 7 or 8 parts in the hundred ; and it possibly exists in a larger proportion as the gasses evolved may contain more water than the gas decomposed , which of course would increase their volume and their absolute weight.* In supposing ammonia a triple compound of nitrogene , -1 - ?
f " h.7 ul.1~E hydrogene , adox itisno lesseasy to giea rational account of the phenomenon of its production and decomposi tion , than ' in adopting the generally received hypothesis of its composition .
Oxygene , : hydrogene , 'and ' nitrogene are -always present in tases : in which volatile alkali is formed ; and it usually appears during the decomposition of bodies in which oxygene is looselyrattach , ed , as in:that of the compounds of oxygene and.i-trogen e dissolvedin waer .
At commoni 'temperatures uder vourable cirumstances , the three tlementsmay , : be ' conceied cape of combining and &lt; of remiaining nunion i but : at the ' eat of igitlon the affnity of hydrogen for oxygene prevai s:oVei the 'compiex attraction , water -iS formed , and hydrogene and 'nitrogee areevolved : and accodtingo these cI nclusions , ammmonia will bear the same relations iothe fi xd alkaiies ; as the vegetable acids-with : ; compound baes:oto themineral ones wittsimple bases .
, &lt; Oxygene them may:'be'cnsidered as existing in , and : as forming , an element in all the-true:alkalies ; and the principle o acidty of the French n:menlature -mi ght now -likewise be called theprmincple of alkalescence .
From analogy alone it is reasonable to expect that the alkaline earths are compounds of a similar nature to the fixed alkalies , peculiar highly combustible metallic bases united to oxygene .
I have triedsome experiments upon bEarytes ande strontites - ; - ' and ' theygof-arftowardss proving that ' this must be the case .
When barytes and strontites , moistened with wat-r , were ; acted ?
upon by tfe power of the:battery of g5o::o-and 6 , there was a vivid action and a brilliant light bat both p"ints ' of communication , and an inflammation at the negative point .
In'these cases the water might possibly have interfered .
Other experiments gave however more distinct results .
Barytes and strontites , even when heated to intense whiteness , in the electrical circuit by a flame supported by oxygene gas , are non-conductors : but by means of combination with a very small quantity of boracic acid , they become conductors ; and in this case inflammable matter , which burns with a deep red light in each instance , is produced from them at the negative surface .
The high temperature has prevented the success of attempts to collect this substance ; but there is much reason to believe that it is the basis of the alkaline earth employed .
Barytes and strontites have the strongest relations to the fixed alkalies of any of the earthy -bodies ; * but there is a chain of resemblances , through lime , magnesia , glucina , alumina , and silex .
And by the agencies of batteries sufficiently strong , and by the application of proper circumstances , there is no small reason to hope , that even these refractory bodies will yield their elements to the methods of analysis by electrical attraction and repulsion .
In the electrical circuit we have a regular series of powers , of decomposition from an intensity of action , so feeble as scarcely to destroy the weakest affinity existing between the parts of a saline neutral compound , to one sufficiently energetic to separate elements in the strongest degree of union , in bodies undecomposable under other circumstances .
When the powers are feeble , acids and alkalies , and acids and metallic oxides , merely separate from each other ; when they are increased to a certain degree , the common metallic oxides and the compound acids are decomposed ; and by means still more exalted , the alkalies yield their elements .
And as far as our knowledge of the composition of bodies extends , all substances attracted by positive electricity , are oxygene , or such as contain oxygene in excess ; and all that are attracted by negative electricity , are pure combustibles , or such as consist chiefly of combustible matter .
The idea of muriatic acid , fluoric acid , and boracic acid containing oxygene , is highly strengthened by these facts .
And the general principle confirms the conjecture just stated concerning the nature of the earths .
In the electrization of boracic acid moistened with water , I find that a dark coloured combustible matter is evolved at the negative surface ; but the researches upon the alkalies have prevented me from pursuing this fact , which seems however to indicate a decomposition .
Muriatic acid and fluoric acid in their gaseous states are non-conductors : and as there is every reason to believe that their bases have a stronger attraction for oxygene than water , there can be little hope of decomposing them in their aqueous solutions , even by the highest powers .
In the electrization of some of their.combinations there is however a probability of success .
An immense variety of objects of research is presented in the powers and affinities of the new metals produced from the alkalies .
GJ In themselves they will undoubtedly prove powerful agents for analysis ; and having an affinity for oxygene stronger than any other known substances , they may possibly supersede the application of electricity to some of the undecompounded bodies .
The basis of potash I find oxidates in carbonic acid and decomposes it , and produces charcoal when heated in contact with carbonate of lime .
It likewise oxidates in muriatic acid ; but I have had no opportunity of making the experiment with sufficient precision to ascertain the results .
In sciences kindred to chemistry , the knowledge of the nature of the alkalies , and the analogies arising in consequence , will open : many new views ; they may lead to the solution of 9many problems in geology , and show that agents may hI.v operated in the formation of rocks and earths which hane no hitherto been suspected to exist . !
It would be easy to pursue the Xspeculative part ol this enquiry to a great extent , but I shall refrain from so otcupying the -time of the Society , as the tenor of ; my object in this lecture has not been to state hypotheses , but to bring crward a new series of facts .
I. The Bakerin Lecture , o some new Phenomena of chemcal Changes produced by Electricity , particulrly the Decomposition of the fied Alkalies , and the Exhibiton of the new substances which constitute their bases ; and on the general N'ature of alkaline Bodies .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R. S. M. R.I. A. Read November 19 , 18o7 .
I. Introduction .
IN the Baerian Lecture which I had the honourof presenting to the Royal Society last year , , I described a number of decompositions and chemical changes produced in substances of known composition by electricity , and I ventured to conclude from the general principles on which the phenomena were capable of being explained , that the new methods of investigation promised to lead to a more intimate knowledge than had hitherto been obtained , concerning the true elements of bodies .
This conjecture , then sanctioned only by strong analogies , I am now happy to be able to support by some conclusive facts .
In the course of a laborious experimental application of the powers of electro-chemical analysis , to bodies which have appeared simple when examined by common chemical agents , or which at least have never been decomposed , it has been my good fortune to obtain new and singular results .
Such of the series of experiments as are in a tolerably mature state , and capable of being arranged in a connected order , I shall detail in the following sections , particularly those which demonstrate the decomposition and composition of the fixed alkalies , and the product in of the ew and:ex ' : traordinary bodies which constitute their bas-es .
In speaking of novel methods of investigation , I shall mot fear to be minute .
When the commioni means of chemical research have been enployed , I shall mention only results : .
A historical detail of the progress of the investigation , of all the difficulties that occurred , and of th ?
e manner in which:they were overcome , and of all the manipulations employed , would far exceed the limits assigned to this Lecture .
It is proper to state , however , that when general -facts are mentioned , they are such only as have been deduced from -processes carefully performed and often repeated .
II .
On the Methods used for the Decomposition of the ixed Alkalies .
The researches I had made on the decomposition of acids , and of alkaline and earthy neutral compounds , proved that the powers of electrical decomposition were proportional to the strength of the opposite electricities in the circuit , and to the conducting power and degree of concentration of the materials employed .
In the first attempts , that I made on the decomposition of the fixed alkalies , I acted upon aqueous solutions of potash and soda , saturated at common temperatures , by the highest electrical power I could command , and which was produced by a combination of VOLTAIC batteries belonging to the Royal Institution , containing 24 plates of copper and zinc of Is inches square , ioo plates of 6 inches , and 150 of4 inches square , charged with solutions of alum and nitrous acid ; but in ; these cases , though there was a high intensity of action , the water of the solutions alone was affected , and hydrogene and oxygene disengaged with the production of much heat and violent effervescence .
The presence of water appearing thus to prevent any decomposition , I used potash in igneous fusion .
By means of a stream of oxygene gas from a gasometer applied to the flame of a spirit lamp , which was thrown on a platina spoon containing potash , this alkali was kept for some minutes in a strong red heat , and in a state of perfect fluidity .
The spoon wasr preserved in communication with the positive side of the battery of the power of ioo of 6 inches , highly charged ; and the connection .
from the negative side was made by a platina wire .
By this arrangement some brilliant phenomena were produced .
The potash appeared a conductor in a high degree , and as long as the communication was preserved , a most intense light was exhibited at the negative wire , and a column of flame , .
which seemed to be owing to the developement of combustible matter , arose from the point of contact .
When the order was changed , so that the platina spoon B2 a

