The reading of the paper by Mr. Ivory , " On the Theory of the Astronomical Refractions , " was concluded .
In this communication , the author , after stating that the mean refractions are the object of investigation , and fully defining what he understands by this term , gives an historical review of what has been done up to the present time on this very important subject .
Having stated that the foundation of the theory of astronomical re ?
fractions was laid by Dominique Cassini , he deduces on Cassini 's hypothesis ( that of an homogeneous atmosphere ) a formula for the refraction , which agrees exactly with that of La Place , employed in computing the first part of the table of mean refractions , published by the French Board of Longitude .
The labours of our immortal countryman Newton , in this vast field of inquiry , are next reviewed .
As the density of the atmosphere in ascending decreases gradually , the path described by a ray from a star , in its passage through the atmosphere , is not a straight line , as it would be on Cassini 's hypothesis , but is a curve more and more inflected towards the earth 's centre .
In the Principia there is found whatever is necessary for determining the nature of this curve , and , consequently , for solving the problem of the astronomical re ?
fractions , which consists in ascertaining the difference between the direction of light when it enters the atmosphere , and its ultimate direction when it arrives at the earth 's surface .
On the principles established in the second section of the Prin ?
cipia , the author deduces equations requisite for the solution of the problem of astronomical refractions , and remarks that these equations are perfectly general , and will apply in any constitution of the at ?
mosphere that may be adopted .
In this investigation , in preference to employing functions with peculiar properties to express the mole ?
cular action , the manner in which the forces act has been consider ?
ed. When the light , in passing through the atmosphere , arrives at a surface of increased density , it receives an impulse which may be considered as instantaneous ; and this impulse being distributed over the breadth of a stratum of uniform density , ascertains the centripetal force tending to the earth 's centre , by the action of which the trajectory is described .
It appears , that Newton himself was the first to apply this new method to the problem of the astronomical refractions .
In his first attempt he assumes that the densities decrease in ascending , in the same proportion as the distances from the earth 's centre increase .
On this supposition the author investigates a formula , which M. Biot has also obtained , and which is equivalent to the construction communicated by Newton to Flamsteed .
On this basis a table was computed and communicated to Flamsteed ; but Newton subsequently informed Flamsteed that he did not intend to publish it , in consequence of a serious objection to the supposed scale of densities .
Adopting the principles in the twenty-second proposition of the second book of his Principia , Newton , it appears , succeeded at length in computing a second table of refractions , which he likewise communicated to Flamsteed , and which , there is every reason to think , is the same which he gave to Halley , and which was inserted by that astronomer in the Philosophical Transactions for 1721 .
As the determining whether the two tables are identical is a question of much interest , the author enters very fully into it , and , from the results of elaborate calculations , concludes that Halley 's table is no other than the one which Newton calculated on the supposition that the densities in the atmosphere are proportional to the pressures .
He remarks that , as far as the mathematics are concerned , the problem of the astronomical refractions was fully mastered by Newton .
After referring to the labours of Brook Taylor , Kramp , and Thomas Simpson , the author again adverts to Newton 's views , remarking that , in assigning the rarefaction of the lower region of the atmosphere by heat as the cause why the calculated refractions near the horizon so much exceeded the observed , as was found to be the case , Newton had assigned the true cause ; but that he had no clear conception of the manner in which the density in the lower region is altered by the agency of heat ; and he considers that nearly the same ignorance in that respect still prevails .
The two atmospheres , with densities decreasing in arithmetical and geometrical progression , which , it now appears , were imagined by Newton , and which have been discussed by Thomas Simpson and other geometers , are found , when the same elements are employed , to bring out horizontal refractions on opposite sides of the observed quantities .
La Place conjectured that an intermediate atmosphere which should partake of the nature of both , and should agree with observation in the horizontal refraction , would approach nearly to the true atmosphere .
If recourse be had to the algebraical expres ?
sions of La Place , it will be found that the atmosphere he proposes is one of which the density is the product of two terms , the one taken from an arithmetical , the other from a geometrical series ; the effect of which combination is to introduce a supernumerary con ?
stant , by means of which the horizontal refraction is made to agree with the true quantity .
The author considers , with Dr. Brinkley , that the French table , founded on La Place 's investigation , is only a little less empirical than the other tables , and that the hypothesis of La Place does not appear to possess any superiority over other supposed constitutions of the atmosphere in leading to a better and less exceptionable theory .
After eulogizing Bessel 's tables of mean refractions , published in his Tabulce Regiomontance , the author refers to his own paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1823 .
In this paper the refractions are deduced entirely from the very simple formula , ? ?
14-/ V ~u in which ft stands for the dilatation of air or gas by heat , rf and rff for the temperature at the earth 's surface , and at any height above it , and c~u for the density of the air at that height in parts of its density at the surface .
If this formula be verified at the earth 's surface in any invariable atmosphere , by giving a proper value to the constant f , it will still hold , at least with a very small deviation from exactness , at a great elevation ; and this is immediately shown .
This manner of arriving at the constitution of the atmosphere is contrasted with the procedure of M. Biot of transforming an algebraical formula , for the express purpose of bringing out a given result .
As the problem in the Mecanique Celeste is solved by means of an interpolated atmosphere between two others ; as in Mr. Ivory 's paper of 1823 , there is no allusion to such an atmosphere ; and as the table in that paper is essentially different from all the tables computed by other methods , he contends that all these must be sufficient to stamp an appropriate character on his solution of the pro ?
blem .
But if ingenuity could trace some relation , in respect of the algebraic expression , between the paper of 1823 and La Place 's cal ?
culations , he considers that it is not difficult to find , between the same paper and the view of the problem taken by the author of the Principia in 1696 , an analogy much more simple and striking .
Newton having solved the problem , on the supposition that the den ?
sity of the air is produced solely by pressure , and having found that the refractions thus obtained greatly exceeded the observed quantities near the horizon , inferred , in the true spirit of research , that there must be some cause not taken into account , such as the agency of heat , which should produce , in the lower part of the atmosphere , the proper degree of rarefaction necessary to reconcile the theoretical with the observed refractions .
The author 's sole intention , in introducing the quantity f in his formula , is to cause the heat at the earth 's surface to decrease in ascending , at the same rate that actually obtains in nature , not before noticed by any geometer , but which evidently has the effect of supplying the desideratum of Newton .
The author considers , that the comparison of the table in the pa ?
per of 1823 , with the best observations that could be procured at the time of publication , was satisfactory ; and after the publication of the Tabulce Regiomontana , he found that the table agreed with Bessel 's observed refractions to the distance of 88 ?
from the zenith , with such small discrepancies as may be supposed to exist in the observations themselves .
The paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1823 , however , takes into account only the rate at which the densities , in a mean atmosphere , vary at the surface of the earth ; but , in the present communication , the author proposes to effect the complete solution of the problem , by estimating the effect of all the quantities on which the density at any height depends .
For this purpose , he finds it necessary to employ functions of a particular kind ; and then gives a formula , one part of which consists of a series of these functions , for the complete expression of the temperature of an atmosphere in equilibrium ; the intention of assuming this formula being to cx~ press the temperature in terms of such a form as will produce , in the refraction , independent parts that decrease rapidly .
By this means he proceeds in the analytical investigation of the problem in its more comprehensive form , and deduces two equations on which its solution depends .
The first of these contains the law according to which the heat decreases as the height above the earth 's surface increases ; and the second determines the perpendicular ascent , when the difference of the pressures and of the temperatures at its upper and lower extre ?
mity have been found .
If the latter , with a slight transformation , be multiplied by the proper factor , representing the variable force of gravity in different latitudes , it becomes identical with the usual barometric formula , all its minutest corrections included ; and it has this advantage ; that , whereas the usual formula is investigated on the arbitrary assumption , that the temperature is constant at all the points of an elevation , and equal to the mean of the temperatures at the two extremities , this formula is strictly deduced from the general properties of an atmosphere in equilibrium .
Having determined , from experimental results , the values of certain constants in these formulae , ?
first , in an atmosphere of dry air , and , secondly , in an atmosphere of air mixed with aqueous vapour , the author remarks , that the analytical theory agrees in every re ?
spect with the real properties of the atmosphere , as far as these have been ascertained .
The object of Mr. Ivory 's further investigation is to show , that the same theory represents the astronomical refractions with a fidelity that can be deemed imperfect only as far as the values of particular constants , which can only be determined by experiment , are liable to the charge of inaccuracy .
He therefore proceeds to determine , from the formula ?
previously deduced , the refraction of a star in terms of its apparent zenith distance .
For this purpose , the differential equations are transformed by the introduction of new symbols ; the limits of certain terms are determined previously to their being neglected ; and the equation is finally reduced to a form , in which the remaining operations consist in investigating the inte ?
grals of four expressions , and in subsequently assigning their nume ?
rical values .
Great skill is displayed in conducting these intricate investigations ; and after going through the most laborious calcula ?
tions and computations , the author exhibits a table of theoretical re ?
fractions , deduced solely from the phenomena of the atmosphere , for zenith distances , extending from 10 ?
to 89^ ? .
These refractions are compared with those in Bessel 's table , in the Tabulce Regiomontante , and also with those in the table in the Connaissance des Temps .
From this comparison , it appears , that the three tables agree within less than 1 " , as far as 80 ?
from the zenith : from 80 ?
to 88 ?
of zenith distance , the numbers in the French table exceed those in Bessel 's , the excess being 2 " at 84 ?
, and 4 " at 88 ?
; and with a single exception at 88 ?
, ( probably , judging from the character of the adjacent number , arising from an error of computation , ) the refractions in the new table are nearer to Bessel 's than those in the French table ; but when the zenith distance is greater than 80 ?
, the author considers the accuracy of the French table questionable , both on account of the hypothetical law of the densities , and because the quantity assumed for the horizontal refraction is uncertain .
After giving a few examples , illustrative of the use of the new table , the author inquires how far the refractions are likely to be affected by the term which it was found necessary to leave out , be ?
cause the present state of our knowledge of the phenomena of the atmosphere made it impossible to determine the coefficient by which it is multiplied .
For this purpose , the variable part of that term has been computed for every half degree , from 85 ?
to 88 ?
, and the results are exhibited in a table .
From this it appears , that this co ?
efficient , although considerably less than that of the preceding term , may still have some influence on the refractions at very low altitudes .
The mean refraction in Bessel 's table , and in the new table , can hardly be supposed to differ 2 , ( from the true quantity , which would limit the coefficient in question to be less than one-tenth .
It is a matter of some importance to obtain a near value of this coeffi ?
cient ; and it is probable that this can be accomplished in no other way , than by searching out such values of the two coefficients as will best represent many good observed refractions at altitudes less than 5 ? .
If such values were found , our knowledge of the decrease of heat in ascending in the atmosphere would be improved , and the measurement of heights by the barometer would be made more perfect .
At the end of the paper is given a table of mean refractions for the temperature 50 ?
Fahr. and barometric pressure 30 inches , at every degree from 0 ?
to 70 ?
zenith distance , and at every 10 ' from 70 ?
to the horizon ; and tables of the corrections requisite for va ?
riations of the thermometer and barometer are subjoined .

