" Of such Ellipsoids , consisting of homogeneous Matter , as are capable of having the Resultant of the Attraction of the Mass upon a Particle in the Surface , and a Centrifugal Force caused by re ?
volving about one of the Axes , made perpendicular to the Surface/ ' By James Ivory , K.H. , M.A. , F.R.S. L. and Ed. , Inst. Reg. Sc , Paris , Corresp .
et Reg. Sc. Gotting .
Corresp .
Lagrange , who has considered the problem of the attractions of homogeneous ellipsoids in all its generality , and has given the true equations from which its solution must be derived , inferred from them that a homogeneous planet cannot be in equilibrium unless it has a figure of revolution .
But M. Jacobi has proved that an equilibrium is possible in some ellipsoids of which the three axes are un ?
equal and have a certain relation to one another .
His transcendental equations , however , although adapted to numerical computa ?
tion on particular suppositions , still leave the most interesting points of the problem unexplored .
The author of the present paper points out the following property as being characteristic of all spheroids with which an equilibrium is possible on the supposition of a centrifugal force .
From any point in the surface of the ellipsoid draw a perpendicular to the least axis , and likewise a line at right angles to the surface : if the plane pass ?
ing through these two lines contain the resultant of the attractions of all the particles of the spheroid upon the point in the surface , the equilibrium will be possible , otherwise it will not .
For the resultant of the centrifugal force and the attraction of the mass must be a force perpendicular to the surface of the ellipsoid , which requires that the directions of the three forces shall be contained in one plane .
This determination obviously comprehends all spheroids of revolution ; but , on account of the complicated nature of the at ?
tractive force , it is difficult to deduce from it whether an equilibrium be possible or not in spheroids of three unequal axes , a problem which is unconnected with the physical conditions of equilibrium , and which is a purely geometrical question respecting a property of certain ellipsoids .
The author then enters into an analytical investigation , from which he deduces the fundamental equation B~ r ?
x* =c~ rrvs . ?
( L ) the three axes of the ellipsoid being k , k V(l +A ) , k s/ ( l + A'* ) , and A , B , C , constants , afterwards expressed by certain definite integrals .
He then remarks that every ellipsoid which verifies this formula is capable of an equilibrium when it is made to revolve with a proper angular velocity about the least axis ; for , in this case , the centrifugal force will be represented in quantity and direction by a line such that the resultant of this force and the whole attraction of the ellipsoid upon a point in the surface will be perpendicular to the surface .
Lagrange had concluded that the equation ( 1 ) , which results immediately from his investigations , admits of solution onlyin spheroids of revolution , that is when\ =\* and B= C ; but by expressing the functions A , B , C in elliptic integrals , M. Jacobi has found that the equation may be solved when the three axes have a particular relation to one another .
In order to ascertain the precise limits within which this extension of the problem is possible , and to determine the ellipsoid when the centrifugal force is given , the author has recourse to the equations of Lagrange , which contain all the necessary conditions , and he deduces the equations / =b-hV '=c-nrv &gt; ' ? ? ?
&lt; * ?
&gt; where / represents the intensity of the centrifugal force at the distance equal to unity from the axis of rotation , and remarks that these equations coincide with the equations of Lagrange .
Suhstituting for A , B , C certain definite integrals given in the Me'canique Celeste , he deduces three equations expressing the value of g , the ratio of the intensity of the centrifugal to that of the attractive force , one of these being expressed in terms of the density and the other two in the form of definite integrals ; and then remarks that " these equations comprehend all ellipsoids that are susceptihle of equili ?
brium on the supposition of a centrifugal force .
" He then applies these equations to the more simple case of the spheroid of revolution , where X= A ' = / , and determines the value of / Z= 2-5293 , and the corresponding maximum value of g= 0*3370 , and remarks that , " with respect to spheroids of revolution , it thus appears that an equilibrium is impossible when g , or its value in terms of the density , is greater than 0*3370 .
In the extreme case , when g is equal to 0*3370 , there is only one form of equilibrium , the axes of the spheroid being karndk\/ { 1 + ( 2-5293 ) ?
- } or 2-7197 k ; but when g is less than 0*3370 there are two different forms of equilibrium , the equatorial radius of the one being less , and of the other greater than 2*7197 k , k being the semi-axis of rotation .
The number of the forms of equilibrium in spheroids of revolution , he remarks , is purely a mathematical deduction from the expression of the ratio of the centrifugal to the attractive forces ; and as this has been known since the time of Maclaurin , the discussion of it was all that was wanted for perfecting this part of the theory .
Returning to the general equations of the problem , the author deduces the equations d &lt; p d(p o= ~J , r dr where &lt; p is a definite integral , such that d &lt; p d &lt; p* p=X A ' and r2 = ( \ ?
A')2 , which equations apply exclusively to ellipsoids with three unequal axes , and solve the problem with regard to that class .
From these he derives another equation , which he states is no other than a transformation of his first fundamental equation , and is equivalent to other transformations of the same equation found by M. Jacobi and M. Liouville .
He also remarks that a limitation of one of the constants , which the verification of this formula requires , agrees with the limitation of M. Jacobi ; and further , that the relations which may subsist between the constants proves that there does exist an infinite number of ellipsoids not of revolution , which are susceptible of an equili ?
brium .
After determining the corresponding limits of these relations of the constants , p being contained between the limits 1*9414 and 1 , while r2 increases from zero to infinity , he remarks that an elliptical spheroid formed of a homogeneous fluid can be in equilibrium by the action of a centrifugal force only when it revolves about the least axis .
He next deduces the general value of g ( the ratio of the forces ) , and thence its value in one extreme case , when r2 ?
0 or when A and A ' are equal , and remarks that this is no other than the determination of g in a spheroid of revolution having its axes equal to k and k v/ 2T9414 =kX L7150 .
In the other extreme case , when r2 is infinitely great , g is zero , From this investigation the conclusion is arrived at , that for every given value of r2 there is only one value of p , and only one ellip ?
soid ; and that to every such ellipsoid there is an appropriate value of g : and , further , that for every possible value of g there will be only one value of r- , and consequently only one ellipsoid susceptible of an equilibrium .
Also the reading of a paper , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" Eleventh series .
By M. Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Fuilerian Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution , was commenced .

