The reading of Mr. Ivory 's Paper was resumed and concluded .
The author considers the essential property of a fluid , and that on which its definition should be founded , as consisting in the perfect mobility of its particles among one another .
If abstraction be made of the force of gravity , or other accelerating force , when a continuous fluid is at rest , and consequently in a state of equilibrium , all its particles are equally pressed in every direction , are equally distant from one another , and are similarly arranged about every interior point .
No fluid is absolutely incompressible ; but the degree of compressibility may be conceived to be so small as not to affect the results j and itis accordingly disregarded in the investigations which occupy the present paper .
These investigations are built on the assumption that the hydrostatic pressure at every point of the fluid is the same function of the three rectangular co-ordinates of the point drawn to three planes intersecting one another at right angles .
The author shows that the algebraical expressions of the accelerating forces prod ucing the pres ?
sure are not entirely arbitrary ; because they must necessarily be equal to the partial differential co-efficients of a function of three in ?
dependent variables , and therefore they are likewise the same functions of the co-ordinates of their point of action in every part of the mass .
This is one of the conditions required for the equilibrium of a mass of homogeneous fluid ; and a second necessary condition is , that these functions of the ordinates are capable of being integrated .
When these two conditions are fulfilled , the determination of the figure of equilibrium is reduced to a question purely mathematical .
For we can form an equation expressive of an equilibrium between the accelerating forces and the variation of pressure , and by integrating this equation we may obtain the hydrostatic pressure ; whence may be deduced the equation of all those points at which there is no pressure , that is , of the outer surface of the fluid .
All that is then requisite for securing the permanence of the figure of the fluid , is that the pressures propagated through the mass be either supported , or mutually balance one another .
The upper surface , which is at liberty , and where there is no pressure , and all interior surfaces , where the pressure is constant , have the same differential equation ; and from this the author infers that such surfaces are perpendicular to the resultant of the accelerating forces acting upon the particles contained in them .
These interior surfaces were denominated by Clairaut level surfaces ; and they are distinguished by the two properties of being equally pressed at all their points , and of cutting the resultant of the forces at right angles .
The author next extends the investigation toheterogeneous fluids , the different parts of which vary in their density , and deduces a si ?
milar conclusion to the former with respect to the perpendicularity of the interior level surfaces to the resultant of the accelerating forces , which act upon the particles situated in each surface respectively .
He discusses the hypothesis of Clairaut , of narrow canals traversing the mass in various directions , and shows that the same results follow from it as from the general theory .
The conditions laid down by Clairaut , and all other authors , as those which are necessary for the equilibrium of ahomogeneous fluid , are these two : ?
first , the accelerating forces must be expressed by the partial differential co-efficients of a function of three independent co-ordinates ; secondly , the resultant of the forces in action at the upper surface at liberty must be perpendicular to that surface .
The author shows that the second condition is a consequence of the first ; and he states the independent conditions of equilibrium to be these : ?
first , the expressions of the forces must be the same functions of the co-ordinates in every part of the mass ; secondly , the same expressions must be the partial differential co-efficients of a function of three independent co-ordinates .
In a very extensive class of problems , the difference in the two ways oflayingdown the conditionsofequilibrium disappears .
Butthetheory of Clairaut cannot be extended to the cases in which the particles mutually attract or repel one another .
or where the accelerating forces depend on the figure of the mass of fluid .
Such is the condition of a homogeneous planet in a fluid state , in which there are forces which prevail in the interior parts , but vanish at the surface ; and v ?
hich are , therefore , not taken into account in Clairaut 's theory .
But since these forces tend to change the figure of the fluid , that theory is inadequate to give an exact determination of the equilibrium in those cases .
In the second part of the paper , the author applies his theory of the equilibrium of fluids to the determination of the figure of the pla ?
nets , under the supposition that they are composed wholly of fluid materials .
For this purpose he first considers the problem of determining the equilibrium of a homogeneous mass of fluid entirely at liberty , when the accelerating forces are known functions of the co ?
ordinates at their point of action .
In the investigation of this pro ?
blem , he supposes that the centre of gravity is at rest , and undisturbed by the action of any accelerating force .
He then supposes the fluid to be in equilibrium , and that three planes are laid down , intersecting one another at right angles in the centre of gravity of the mass , to which planes the particles of the fluid are referred by rectan ?
gular co-ordinates .
The algebraical consequences of this supposition are then pursued , the conditions necessary to equilibrium pointed out , and the conclusion deduced , that the resultant of the accelera ?
ting forces is perpendicular to the outer surface , and also to the interior level surfaces of the fluid , at every point of which there is the same intensity of pressure .
The figure of the fluid being determined , it remains to inquire , whether the equilibrium is secure ; and the result of the inquiry furhishes an equation which proves that the particles have no tendency to move , from any inequality of pressure .
A further discussion is entered into in order to prove that thepressures propagated from the surfaces into the interior parts balance and destroy one another , which completely establishes the permanence of the figure of the fluid .
It is also shown that the mass of fluid , under these circumstances , has no tendency to turn upon an axis .
To illustrate the foregoing problem , the author applies it to the determination of the figure of equilibrium of a homogeneous mass of fluid entirely at liberty , of which the particles attract one another with a force directly proportional to the distance , at the same time that they are urged by a centrifugal force caused by rotation about an axis .
Fle then enters upon the investigation of the second problem , in which the law of attraction of the particles is that of the inverse duplicate ratio of the distance ; and finally arrives at the conclusion , that the form of the fluid in equilibrium is , exclusively of all other figures , an oblate elliptical spheroid of revolution , and that its axis of rotation is the lesser axis of the spheroid .
He also shows that within the spheroid there are no more than two sets of surfaces equally pressed by the action of the exterior fluid ; and no more than two diffe ?
rent spheroids of equilibrium answering to the same rotatory motion .
If the whole spheroid be one of small oblateness , the greatest of the interior surfaces of equable pressure , which is not a level surface , stands upon the equator ; and the rest are within this , and are similar to it , and similarly posited .
When it is very oblate , the greatest of these surfaces is described about the lesser axis ; and the rest are within it , and are similar to it , and similarly posited .
The existence of two sets of interior surfaces , that are equally pressed at ali their points by the action of the exterior fluid , is inconsistent with Clairaut 's theory , and is a proof of the insufficiency of that theory for determining the figure of a homogeneous planet .

