XV .
A remarkable Instance of the happy Effect of Musk , in a very dangerous Case ; by James Parsons , M. D. F. R. S. MR. Darlington , who lodges at the Cheshire Cheese below CharingCross , a Man of a robust Habit of Body , was taken ill about the Beginning of December last of a Rheumatic Fever , attended with the Loss of the Use of his Limbs , excessive Pain in every Part , and Swellings in his Knees and Hands , with all the other Symptoms usual in this kind of Fever : Besides which he coughed up grumous Blood , and had a Pain which was very violent in his right Side , from a Fall against the Edge of a Table , a few Days before he was seized with this Fever , which rendered his Case the more dangerous .
Read Feb. 20 .
1745-6 .
During the first ten Days he was attended by his Apothecary only ; who , finding him grow worse , proposed a Physician , who was accordingly called in , and ordered a Bleeding , with such other Remedies as he thought necessary : This , I understood , was the second time he had been let Blood .
But the Patient by this time was so averse to taking Medicines , that he did not duly follow the Method ordered by this Gentleman , and at length absolutely refused to take any more , and so discharged the Doctor on the fourth Day of his Attendance .
On the fifteenth Day of his Illness he sent for me , having been formerly concerned for some of his Family .
I found his Symptoms increased , and his Disease gaining Ground apace .
I had him let Blood immediately , which was one third Part Size , and ordered it to be repeated , and put him under such a Regimen as the State of his Case then required ; but as soon as I was gone , he refused to comply with my Prescriptions also .
I expressed my Concern for his obstinate Temper , and left him on my fourth Visit .
Thus were eighteen Days passed , and his Case growing more desperate every Day .
I heard no more of him till five Days after , which was on the twentythird Day of his Disease , when I was entreated to visit him again , and found him most miserably afflicted with two of the most dangerous Symptoms that can appear at the End of such a dangerous Disttemper ; viz. a long Intermission of his Pulse every third or fourth Stroke , and a most fatiguing Hiccup , which struck him violently about ten times in a Minute .
His Case was now deplorable and desperate ( thro ' his own Folly ) , and what I was almost ready to give up , especially as he was then very weak and delirious : However , willing to assist him , and calling to Mind the Accounts of the Musk some time since communicated to this Learned Society * , was resolved to have recourse to it here .
Accordingly I directed a Draught , consisting of an Ounce and half of strong Cinamonwater , two Drams of compound Piony-water , and fifteen Grains of Musk , with Orders to increase the Dose of Musk to twenty Grains , and repeat the Draught every six Hours .
I also told his Wife to give him a Glass of Sack , as often as he would have it ; and at the same time caused three Blistering Plaisters to * See these Trans. n. 474 , p. 212 , to be laid on to his Neck and Arms , which , among other things , he had refused before .
In four Hours after the first Draught the intermitting Pulse was altered to a very calm regular one ; but the Hiccup continued with the same Violence , till he had taken the fifth Draught ; and then returned only once in six or seven Minutes .
His Senses were now restored , and he grew cheerful and easy , and said , he would take no more of any kind whatsoever : But , being unwilling to cease the Exhibition of a Medicine which bid so fair for his Recovery , I gave him a Glass of Sack , into which the sixth Draught was privately poured , which took away his Hiccup entirely .
The next Day he had an Appetite to eat , and was indulged by his Wife with a large Chicken , a great deal of Bread , and a Pint of Beer and Ale , which he eat greedily : This overcharged his Stomach , and brought on his Hiccup again , which fatigued him much , before I visited him in the Afternoon .
Whereupon I directed a purging Draught immediately , which emptied him well , and conquered his Hiccup , and every other bad Symptom .
Next Day I found him well , limited his Diet for a few Days , with Directions to repeat his Purge once more , after three Days ; and in a Fortnight he went abroad .
The Blisters might perhaps conduce , in some measure , to do him Service ; but , as the Man was so many Days ill , and reduced to a Condition very little , if at all , better than that of a dying Man , I believe the Musk , rather than the Blisters , was the Medicine that restored him : For I have often seen the latter applied in a greater Number in vain , even when the Symptoms were not so seemingly desperate as in the Case before you .
He took near one hundred and five Grains of Musk in about thirty Hours ; but I ca n't say he either slept or perspired more than ordinary upon it .

