XII .
On the expansion in a series of the attraction of a Spheroid .
By JAMES IVORY , M. A. F. R. S. Read January 17 , 1822 .
THE purpose of this paper is to make some observations on the developement of the attractions of spheroids , and on the differential equation that takes place at their surface .
1 .
The whole of this doctrine depends on one fundamental proposition .
Letf(0 , qp ) denote any function of the sines and cosines of the variable arcs 0 andp ; and put k =cos 0 : then the given function may be developed in a series , viz. f(0 , )t = 2 ?
+ Q( ) + Q( ... + Q( ... &amp;c. every term of which will separately satisfy this equation in partial fluxions , viz. d. ( --. .
) .
}I X. d ( z)+ i(i ?
l ) Q)=o .
Now in one case there is no difficulty .
Whenever f(0 , p ) stands for a rational and integral function of t , V/ l--2 .
sin &lt; , / i-i 2 .
cos , ; or of three rectangular co-ordinates of a point in the surface of a sphere ; the proposition is clear .
In this case the same combinations of the variable quantities are found in the terms of the series and in the given function ; and by employing the method of indeterminate coefficients , the two expressions may be made to coincide .
The inquiry is therefore reduced to examine the nature of the developement whenf ( 0 , c ) is not such a function as has been mentioned .
One thing is indisputable .
Since the terms of the developement contain no quantities , except such as arise from combilling three rectangular co-ordinates , it follows , that when f(0 , p ) is not explicitly a fuunction of p , I-2 .
sin p , Vi-WT .
cos p , it must be considered as transformed into such a function .
Algebraically speaking ; the transformation is no doubt always possible ; but there may be danger that , by proceeding in this way , we fall upon expressions which are not proper representatives of the given function ; which are symbolical merely , and which cannot be safely , employed in the investigation of truth .
In order to fix the imagination , and to , avoid every sort of uncertainty and obscurity , I shall take a particular , although a very extensive case of the general expression ; IJ shall suppose that f( , 5 ) , or more shortly y , denotes .
a rational and integral apd finite , function , of the four quantities , sin 0 , cos 0 , sin 0 , cos p. We may then substitute for the powers and products of sin cp and cos qp , their values in the sines and cosines of the multiples of the arc ; , by which means we shall obtain , y -M(M( ) cos + M( ) cos 2e + &amp;c. ; + N( ' ) sin q+ N(2 ) sin 2p the symbols M( ) , ( ) , N( ' ) &amp;c. standing for rational:and integral functions of cos 0 and sin , or ofand V/ -. .
Again , every even power of Vfl- , j2 is an integral function of ; and every odd power is equal to a similar function multiplied by Vi'- ' : the value of y will therefore be thus expressed , _2.f( ) ) q +-(2 ) c/ &amp; .
Y-(F()+1.())+ ( ( sin + ( G(l( )+X ( l ) )ISin 9 100 all the functional : quantities being.integral expressions of k.e The general term of this expression is { F ( ^I ) + ^I ^ ( i ) } Ccos ip i+G ^( ) + */ 1-E ( ) , } sin z ; and by multiplying by ( ' ) , or , it will become , ( i ) / ( I- ) ... .)+ i , ; -g( } y -(i ' &lt; -- ) ( i a 2 ' sin i , f G^^ ) i(W ^f ^4 .
4(I_)2 ( i-t ) Jand finally , .
by expanding the denominators , we get , M( i(2 ) Cosi + Ni ) ( 1-p)7 sin ip ; the symbols M(t and N( ) denoting rational series of the powers of p. By performing these operations in all the terms containing a , and likewise by expanding the radical Vi-/ in the first term , the value of y will be thus expressed X2 y=M(0)+ M( ( -CO ) p2 cs c+M( ) ( 1i~2)2 cos + &amp;c. 1a+ sN ' ( I-2I)2 sin , +N( )( i,2 ) sin 2 all the functional symbols standing for series of the powers of , .
The given expression now consists entirely of combinations of the quantities / , V/ Ii-- ; os P , 'ix~1sin 4 ; that is , it is a function of three rectangular co-ordinates .
The same end might have been accomplished by a shorter and more simple process , which will apply to every function of two variable arcs .
101 Put u=V/ 1-2 .
sin , , z=V1i- ? .
cos p ; then cos --0== sin 0=V sin cos ( p = V : and by substituting these values and expanding the radical quantities wherever they occur , y will be transformed into a function of V , u , z , or of three rectangular co-ordinates .
The former process has been chosen under the idea , that it exhibits more clearly the quantities which are in a manner extraneous to the function , and are introduced merely for the purpose of making it put on a certain form .
Having now reduced y to a function of three rectangular coordinates , the developement in question will be obtained by the method of indeterminate coefficients already mentioned .
Nothing more is necessary than to form the quantities Q( ) , Q( ) , Q(2 ) , &amp;c. , giving to each the most general expression , and leaving the coefficients indeterminate ; then the sum of these terms will contain the same combinations of A , V1e .
sin p , v -- .
cos p , thaty does ; and by making the two expressions coincide , we shall obtain , * y =Q Q()+ Q+ Q ) + Q(i ) &amp;c. Now let us go back to the original expression of y. By following the process described in the second chapter of the third book of the Mecanique Celeste , a similar developement of that quantity will be obtained .
But it is proved , in the same chapter , that a given function cannot be developed two diffe* Mecanique Celeste , Tom. ii .
p. 4z .
rent ways , in a series of terms that satisfy the general equation in partial fluxions : and from this it appears , that the developement obtained by the algebraic operations described above , is identical with the developement found by LAPLACE'S method .
There is another way of expressing the terms of the developement of y , namely , by definite integrals .
But upon this head there is no difficulty , when the possibility of the developement is allowed .
The question is not concerning the properties of a series of quantities that satisfy the general equation of partial fluxions ; but whether the developement can be admitted in all cases as a fit instrument for the investigation of truth .
Since it has been shown that the developement of y , obtained by the procedure in the second chapter of the third book of the Mecanique Celeste , is the same with the like developement found by immediately transforming the given expression into a function of three rectangular co-ordinates ; it is just to say of the former method , that in reality it is nothing more than a particular way of effecting such a transformation , while at the same time it gives to the transformed quantity a certain arrangement .
In the process we have followed , there is no need to employ the differential equation that takes place at the surface of the spheroid ; and by thus going more directly to the foundations of the method , we can discern more clearly what goes on under the cover of many complicated analytical operations .
There is an essential distinction with regard to the developement to be observed between the two cases when the given expression y is explicitly a function * Mec .
Cel .
Tom. II .
pp. 32 , and 33 .
of three rectangular co-ordinates , and when it must be made to assume the'fofm of such a function by a transformation .
When y is an explicit function of three rectangular co-ordinates , these things are true : ist .
The developement contains no quantities except what are found in y. The two expressions are entirely equivalent , being in reality the same quantities differently arranged .
edly .
WWhen y is a finite expression , the developement will consist'of a finite number of terms ; and wheny is a converging series of an infinite number of terms , the developement will be a like converging series .
For , in the case of a converging series , we may approach to the'value of y as near as we please , by taking in a determinate number of the terms ; and the develbpement of this portion of the , series will likewise consist of a finite number of terms .
On the other hand , the properties that demand attention are very different , when we suppose that y is not explicitly a function of three rectangular co-ordinates .
ist .
The developement will always contain an infinite number of terms .
2dly .
In most instances ; and , more particularly , in the very general example that has been considered above ; the terms of the developerment will involve an infinite number of quantities which do not appear in the original function , and which are introduced merely in order to give the developement its peculiar form .
The original function and the whole infinite series of which the developement consists , may be represented by this equation , viz. y =y -+MM the right hand side , which stands in place of the developement , containing all the quantities in y , and besides an infinite number of other quantities , denoted by 4M and M , which have opposite signs , and destroy one another .
But this mutual destruction of the extraneous quantities will take place only when the totality of the series , comprehending its infinite number of terms , is taken into account .
Any determinate number of terms of the developement will contain quantities not to be found in y ; and , for aught that appears , the difference may have any given amount .
No finite part of the developement can therefore properly be said to represent the proposed function .
If we take a separate term , as Q( , it is not extravagant to say that it may have nothing in common with the original expression .
Nevertheless such a term is a necessary part of the series , in order to balance quantities that occur with opposite signs in other terms .
For the sake of illustration , suppose a spheroid of revolution determined by this equation , viz. r=a { i +e-Vl- } ; e being a small coefficient , and K the cosine of an arc reckoned from one of the poles of revolution .
In such a spheroid the greatest diameters will make an angle of 45 ?
with the equator , resembling the figure which the planet Saturn was , some years ago , supposed to have .
In order to develope the vari .
able part of the radius of the spheroid , that is V-/ 1 , in a series of quantities that satisfy the equation in partial fluxions , it is first necessary to expand V/ i- " ; and the number of terms of the developement will therefore be infinite .
To the preceding equation let there be added the term fJ , sin p ; p denoting the variable angle that the circle on which the distance from the pole is reckoned , makes with a circle given by position ; and the nature of the spheroid will be thus expressed , viz. r= ai+e ( / i+f sin x ) 1 .
In this case the quantity to be developed must be put under this form , viz. fv + , Vt sin and the developement will not only consist of an infinite number of terms , but these terms will contain an infinite number of quantities which arise from the expansion of the radical in the denominator , and which are not to be found in the original function .
There is therefore a real distinction to be made between the two cases when y is an explicit function of three rectangular co-ordinates , and when it is not .
A method of calculation which is clear , exact and elegant , when it is confined to the first case , becomes clouded with obscurity , if not merely symbolical , when it is extended to the other case .
To say the least , there are certainly great difficulties which are not explained ; and if there be any geometers who hesitate , and have doubts , they are not without their excuse , and ought not to be entirely condemned .
2 .
We come next to consider the differential equation that takes place at the surface of a spheroid .
Of this equation , three demonstrations have been published ; one , in the second chapter of the third book of the Mecanique Celeste ; * another by the same author , not precisely the same with the former , but similar to it , in a memoir read to the Academy of Sciences in 188 ; and a third by M. POIssoN , in an interesting and profound memoir on the distribution of heat in solid bodies .
The two last demonstrations are fundamentally the same ; but as M. POISSON has stated the reasoning more fully , and fixed the sense of the proof more precisely , I wish to refer to his memoir .
One observation it is proper to make , which is , that in the integration by which the differential equation is proved , the function expressing the thickness of the molecule is considered as invariable , or is treated as a constant quantity .
It is essential to attend to this remark , which in reality affords the clue necessary to unravel what is mysterious in this investigation .
In order to acquire a distinct notion of the meaning of the differential equation in the sense in which it is demonstrated , conceive the surface of the earth , perfectly smooth and spherical , to be covered with circles , we shall say , of a thousand yards radius each .
The circles may either touch one another and cover the whole surface of the earth ; or they may cover it partially only , and with any interruptions that can be imagined : conceive also that a mass of matter , or molecule , is placed within every circle ; the thicknesses of the molecules being entirely arbitrary , and subject to no law of variation or restriction whatever , excepting that they are quantities of inconsiderable magnitude when compared with the radius of the sphere .
These things being supposed , the differential equation will be separately true of every one of the molecules .
Let now the whole surface of the earth , or any portion of it , be covered with molecules , the thickness varying according 107 to a particular law , or being expressed by some function of the arcs that determine the position of a molecule : the differential equation will be true of all these molecules .
But it will be equally true of them , if the thickness be entirely arbitrary , and subject to no law of variation .
It is true , in reality , of each molecule taken in an insulated manner , and because its thickness is some determinate quantity .
How then can such an equation be a fit means of proving that the thickness varies in one way rather than another , or that it comes under a particular developement ?
To consider this matter more particularly , let y ==f ( 0 , q ) denote , as before , the thickness of the molecule ; and put , y'=f(O ' , q ' ) , y== cos 0 cos O'+ sin 0 sin 0 ' cos ( .-0 ' ) e= V"'-ra .
y+ aa , a being less than r : then Xr denoting the semi-circumference to the radius I , the differential equation at the surface is what the following formula becomes in the particular case of r=a , vi7 .
r7 _'r , l ' +2a sin O ' dO ' d ' ; or , by substituting the value of , yr= f ?
( -a ) y ' sin O ' dA ' d(A ) -y-(A ) ( r=-2ray + a^ 2 the integral being taken between the limits 0'=-o , cp'o and O'=sr , '=27r , and making a=r , after the integration .
Now , when r=a , r--a2=o ; and in this case all the elements of the integral are evanescent , unless in the particular circumstances when the denominator is evanescent , or when lo , y=i ; which can happen only when 0'=S , and , p'-- .
If therefore we suppose r--a2 to be indefinitely small , the whole value of the integral will be obtained by extending the integration to such values of 0 ' and q ' as differ indefinitely little from 0 and p. But when 0 ' and p ' differ indefinitely little from 0 and p , y ' orf(O ' , q ' ) , will differ indefinitely little from y , orf ( 0 , p ) : and hence it follows that , in the whole extent of the integral , we may consider y ' as constant and equal toy .
We have therefore to prove the truth of this formula , viz. yr ( r'-r-a ) sin O ' d9 'd ' ( r1.-zray+a2 ) 2 between the limits 0'=o , q'=o , and 0=r , ' =2r , in the particular case of a=r .
The two arcs 0 , 0 ' and the arc of which y is the cosine , are the three sides of a spherical triangle ; ( p-p is the angle opposite to the last arc ; and if 4-4 ' denote the angle opposite to 0 ' , the element of the spherical surface will be equally expressed by sin O ' d ' dqd , or dp 'd .
cos 0 , and by d4/ die : wherefore we have to integrate this formula , viz. yr rr(r2--- ) .
dV4'dy r cJ Pr._ I\y2-zray +a4z2 Now integrate between the limits l'/ =o and 24= 27r then yr= _rj ( rd-a1 ) die ( r--zray+ay2Y integrate again , and Y r-_a2 Y Za Vrz2-zrayia ' then take this integral between the limits 9 =+ i , and -y = 1 ; and y r'r%--a~ } Y2 ' r-a r+a J ' 1og which equation is true when we make r= a. This analysis is equivalent to the demonstration of M. POIssoN .
Whatever may be thought of the reasoning , it cannot be denied that , in both processes , y ' is in fact treated as a constant quantity .
The equation is true of each individual molecule taken separately , and merely because its thickness has some determinate value .
Such a demonstration cannot therefore be employed to prove that the thickness of a series of molecules covering the surface of a sphere , or a part of that surface , follows a certain law of variation , or comes under a particular developement .
^ But a legitimate process of reasoning requires that , in the formula ( A ) , while a represents any determinate quantity less than r , y ' be considered as a function of the variable quantities sin 0 ' , cos 0 ' , sin q ' , cos p ' ; and likewise that the integration be extended to the whole surface of the sphere , or to that part of it covered with the related molecules ; after which the true value of the formula will be obtained by making a= r. The whole system of molecules being comprehended in the result , we may thence deduce , by a reverse process , the law according to which their thickness must vary , in order to produce that result .
Now the integration here spoken of , cannot be executed , unless in the case when y ' is explicitly a function of three rectangular co-ordinates .
It is therefore only in this case that the differential equation can be considered as rigorously proved , and it is remarkable , that , when we seek from that equation the developement of y ' , it always comes out in a function of three rectangular coordinates , When y ' is not explicitly a function of three rectangular 110 co-ordinates , the formula ( A ) cannot be integrated .
And , perhaps , what is now said , is alone sufficient to show that , in this case , some modification takes place , which it were desirable to have fully explained .
On attempting to transform y ' into an expression containing y , V-9 , sin t ' , cos p ' in place of cos 0 ' , sin 0 ' , sin ' , cos q ' , the powers of Vi/ ymake their appearance as divisors ; and hence it is to be feared that the integral will be infinite at the limits ; which circumstance would make it impossible to conclude with certainty what the value sought will become in the particular case of a= r. But it would be of no utility to seek a strict demonstration of the differential equation : because in reality the method , when it is extended to all functions of two variable arcs , is independent of that equation , being derived from this proposition , that every such expression is either explicitly a function of three rectangular co-ordinates , or may be transformed into one .
The developement in question may always be found , as has been shown , by the rules of algebra ; and the differential equation is wanted neither for proving the possibility of the developement , nor for calculating its terms .
But in this plainer way of considering the matter , it appears that the developement does not represent the given expression y ' , when that expression is not an explicit function of three rectangular co-ordinates , in the same sense that it does when it is such a function .
There is , therefore , a difficulty left unexplained ; and we may be permitted to doubt , whether so important a part of the celestial mechanics , as that regarding the figure of the planets , rests , with sufficient evidence , on the doctrine laid down concerning the generality of the developement .
111 The observations that have been made , relate only to the foundation of the method in the Mecanique Celeste , and do not touch upon the general scope of the analysis , which is deserving of every praise .
It is natural to think , that the theory of the figure of the planets would be placed on a firmer basis , if it were deduced directly from the general principles of the case , than when it is made to depend on a nice , and somewhat uncertain point of analysis .
To hazard a conjecture suggested in the course of writing this paper , the theory will probably be found to hinge on this proposition , that a spheroid , whether homogeneous or heterogeneous , cannot be in equilibrium by means of a rotatory motion about an axis , and the joint effect of the attraction of its own particles , and of the other bodies of the system , unless its radius be a function of three rectangular co-ordinates .
If this proposition were clearly and rigorously demonstrated , the analysis of LAPLACE , in changing the ground on which it is built , would require little or no alteration in other respects .
Dec. 22 , iSzi .
112f

