LXXXII .
Observations upon Father Kircher 's Opinion concerning the burning of the Fleet of Marccllus by Archimedes .
By James Parsons , M. D. F. R. S. WHEN Marcellus besieged the city of Syracuse , it is well known , by the authority of those great historians Livy , Polybius , and Plutarch , that the incomparable skill and devices of Archimedes were the only obstacles to his succeeding in his enterprise , much sooner than he did .
These authors tell us of his having invented machines , with which he threw stones of an enormous weight , into the ships of the besieger ; with showers of darts , flints , pieces of timber , and such like ; and had so prepared his engines , as to be proper for any distance the vessels might lie at , in the harbour .
And they are minute in their descriptions of some of them ; particularly , in his having destroyed the Sambuca , a machine contrived by Marcellus .
Nor does it appear that the forces , investing the city by land , fared any better than those by water ; for it is said he galled them in all quarters .
And tho ' the machines , as described by these great authors , were wonders , surpassing the comprehensions of the generality of mankind , yet I believe their accounts have credit with the candid part of the learned , who delight in history and antiquities .
Read June 13 , 1754 .
But what was most discredited , was Archimedes 's setting fire to the ships , by a burning speculum .
Indeed so distinguished a genius , if he could not destroy stroy them in that manner , must know , that he might have thrown combustible matter , sufficient to burn the galleys , from his projectile machines : For we cannot imagine that he was ignorant of every kind of these , and not even of the wildfire of the Greeks .
But , however , to account for his burning the fleet , by a speculum , was the difficult point .
When philosophers began to increase their catoptrical experiments , which they did very early , they found the focus , of every speculum that was concave , so short , that they were easily inclined to conclude , that Archimedes could not set fire to the fleet by a speculum ; and hence the fact became entirely discredited , till the famous Kircher , and his pupil Schottus , whose characters and works the learned world are well enough acquainted with , resolved to consider not only the story of Archimedes , but also that of Proclus , who is said to have destroyed a fleet at Constantinople in the same manner .
Kircher , however , notwithstanding the incredulity that appeared every-where among the learned of his time , concerning those facts , was not deter d from giving great attention to the matter himself ; which led him to make innumerable experiments , in order to see whether it was possible to be done or not , before he would give any opinion about it ; and at length , when he had commended the parabolical speculum , which he , and others , were inclined to think the most likely to succeed in such an enterprise ; he was inclined to think , Archimedes made use of such a speculum .
But , soon after , he was discontented with this notion , and began to make new essays ; and , being happy in his invention , he fell upon one , which lessened his former good opinion of the parabolical speculum , and made him more sensible of the inconveniences attending it , or those of any other form , that had any great degree of concavity ; and , in a word , engaged him entirely in favour of his new thought , which was put in execution in the following manner : He erected a frame , on which he placed five plane specula , of equal given dimensions , with such inclinations as made them all throw their reflected rays upon the same place , at more than one hundred feet distance .
When he had set the first speculum , he went and laid his hand upon the place , whereupon he caus 'd the rays to fall , and found it warm ; when he added those of the second , the heat was doubled ; the third increased the heat in the same proportion ; and the fourth being added , the heat was scarce to be borne ; but the fifth made it intolerable .
From whence he concludes , that , by multiplying those specula , the heat might be so increased , as to set fire to combustible matter at greater distances , according to the number applied .
Now because I think it a matter of some consequence , in the learned world , to ascertain to every author the praises due to his labours and discoveries , and to show this author 's application of the invention to the confirmation of this Archimedean fact ; I think it also incumbent on me to give the Society his own words upon it , which he himself has reduced to a problem .
PROBLEMA IV .
Machinam ex speculis planis construere ad centum pedes &amp; ultra urentem .
Suppono igitur primo , speculum planum tanto majorem lucem reflectere , quanto illud majus fuerit ; ita pedale speculum in vicino pariete , lucem pedalem , in remoto , ad centum pedes lucem tantam , quanta pars quarta pedis est , projiciere , experientia comperi .
Supponendum secundo insinitos radios , ex singulis speculi punctis , reflexos , hanc lucem constituere .
Si itaque aliud speculum planum ita constituas ut reflexa lux duplicatae paulo ante luci congruat , dico &amp; lucem &amp; calorem triplatum iri , &amp; sic in infinitum procedendo .
Supponendum tertio , lucem &amp; calorem hujusmodi speculorum reflectione , in unum spatium reflexum , pro multitudine speculorum multiplicari ; quemadmodum fuse ostendimus lib. 2~ de Actinobolismis , part .
12 .
Ego certe hujus rei in quinque speculis experimentum sumpsi ; &amp; prima quidem lux , a luce directa , diversum calorem habebat ; duplata lux notabile caloris augmentum jam suscipiebat ; triplata calorem ignis praeferebat ; quadruplicata calorem utcunque tollerabilem adhuc praestabat ; quintuplicata , pene intolerabilem ; unde certo &amp; indubitate conclusi , multiplicatis speculis planis , &amp; ea ratione collocatis , ut omnia , reflexam solis lucem , * Kircheri Ars magna lucis &amp; umbrae , lib. X. pars III .
cap. i. distinctio 3 .
in in unum spatium cogant , futurum , ut non tantum majorem ustionis effectum , quam quaelibet ustoria parabolica , hyperbolica , elliptica , praestent ; sed &amp; in multo majus spatium , radiosam lucem reflectant , quemadmodum me in quinque speculis ad spatium centum &amp; amplius pedum , experientia docuit .
' ' Schottus gives the same account of Kircher 's experiment .
He accompanied him in all his trials , as well as in his journey to Syracuse , after he had brought his plane mirrors to answer his purpose ; and , upon viewing the place , they both concluded , the galleys of Marcellus could not be farther than thirty paces from Archimedes .
And yet Schottus declared , that if a concave speculum could be constructed , as large as the rotunda , it could not have a sufficient focus to effect what both Archimedes and Proclus are said to have done .
Thus we see Kircher had scientifically established the problem , for the construction of a burning machine , consisting of any number of plane specula ; which was afterwards farther confirm d by the ingenious Monsieur de Buffon , a worthy member of our Society , at Paris ; as it appears in two letters , one from Mr. Needham , fellow of the Royal Society , to me ; and the other from the marquis Nicolini to our late worthy president ; both read before this Society in April 1747 , and since printed in these Transactions ; in which Monsieur de Buffon is said to be the inventor * .
If so , we cannot suppose he coul have seen what either Kircher or Schottus had wrote about it .
* Since this paper was committed to the press , the author has , found , that Mons. de Buffon , at the close of his discourse on this subject , printed in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Sciences , has mentioned that himself had solved the problem , before he knew that it had been done by Kircher .

