VII .
Some Attempts made to prove that Herbs of the same Make or Class for the generallity , have the like Virtue and Tendency to work the same Effects .
In a Discourse made before the Royal Society , by Mr. James Petiver Apothecary , and Fellow of the said Society .
HAving by some Persons been asked what Method might be best proposed towards the discovering of the Virtues of Plants , amongst others I thought this might not prove an altogether unsuccessful conjecture , Viz .
That Plants of the same Figure or Likeness , have for the generallity much the same Virtues and Use .
Especially if we consider , that the Organs or Structure of all Plants of the same Family or Class , must have much the same Vessels and Ductus 's to consummate that Regular formation , and consequently the Juices Circulated and strained thro ' them cannot be very Heterogeneous ; and that as for the most part , the Scent and Taste have great affinity , so of course their Virtue likewise cannot be very dissonant .
1 .
As for Instance , the Herbae Umbelliferae or Tribe of Umbelliferous Herbs .
These the Learned Mr. Ray hath accurately Treated of in the 9th .
Book of his excellent History of Plants , page .
406 .
and his Synopsis p. 63 .
and in his 2d .
Edition , page .
101 .
as hath Mr. Dale also in his Pharmacologia , page .
202 .
It 's the property of these Herbs to have the Position of their Flower-branches to proceed from one Basis or Center , which expand themselves into an Umbel , whose Flowers consist of Five irregular or rather unequal , ( that is , differing in shape and bigness ) pentapetalose Leaves , from whence their Seed are produced , which are naked or double , or by their splitting seem so .
This Genus I generally observe to be endowed with a Carminative Taste and Smell , are powerful expellers of Wind , and are therefore good in all flatulent Diseases , and of great use in the Colic , &amp;c. To Instance a few for Example , as Aniss , Caraway , Cummin , Angelica , Smallage , Parsly , Lovage , &amp;c. Here is to be noted , that the Seed of Umbels are most used , as in all those just mentioned , and the Roots also of some are no less prevalent , Viz .
the Angelica , Fennel , Parsly and Smallage , and the Leaves of some few , Viz .
these last recited .
2 .
Let us now look into another Class , Viz .
the Plantae Galeatae and Verticillatae , Raii Hist. Plant .
lib. 11 .
page .
508 .
Synops .
77 .
and Ed. 2 .
122 .
The Medicinal ones of this Tribe are also Treated of in Mr. Dales Manuductio ad materiam Medicam , page .
230 .
These are a Family of Plants which bear their Flowers in Rundels or Whorles , at more or less distances round the Stalk , whose Monopetalose Flowers , if we may so call them , being such at the bottom , being Tubulose , contrary to the last , and are generally divided into Five unequal Segments as the Umbels , but with this distinction , that the two greater petala or Flower-leaves in this Tribe are sometimes above , and other times below ; whereas the others are constantly the same , that is always lye in the same place , being expanded on a flat or plain Surface : The Flowers of our ~ Plants from the different Position of their Petala , are therefore distinguisht under the Florae Galeatae Seu Labiatae .
The Calyx or Case to the lower , or Tubulose part of each Flower serves also for it 's Seed Vessel , in the bottom of which is contained , in all I have yet observed , 4 Seeds set close together upon a Plain , which Nature lets fall out when ripe , the Husk being always open , and commonly divided into Five Points , Adequating the Segments of each Flower .
Now whereas the greatest Virtue of the Umbelliferous Tribe , were specified to lye in the Seed , and next to them the Roots , there are few or none as I have yet observed in this Genus famous for any extraordinary Virtues or Effects in those parts , but the Sovereign balm of these chiefly consist in their Leaves and Husks , rather then the Flowers ; which last , especially all Authors has hitherto given the preference to ; as for Example , in the Flowers of Rosemary , Lavender and Sage , particularly the first , as the only part from which our best Queen of Hungary 's Water is extracted .
I will therefore take this occasion to give my Reasons , for preferring that part which by all others has been hitherto neglected and slighted , or if used , has been by accident only or casually by being contiguous to the Flower .
I would not be thought to propose this Hypothesis for Cheapness sake , for if my assertion holds good , as I doubt not to prove it , I fear they will quickly sell the Husks as dear as the Flowers , if they find a great vend or a frequent demand for them .
My Reasons for giving the preference to the Husks of this Tribe , before the Flowers , are , because I commonly observe the Calyces are the chiefest , if not the only part on which I find it 's Viscous or Sulphureous Particles to adhere , this you may very easily perceive , not only by it 's much stronger and penetrating smell , but by the Clamminess of this , far beyond the other parts , as is very apparent , particularly in the Husks of Sage and Clary , and if with Spirit of Wine you make a Distillation of these alone , you will find them much stronger then from a greater quantity of Flowers only , which being of finer and more Volatile parts , are only capable of retaining what the vicinity of the stronger and thicker Texture , which the Calyces are composed of , and can without prejudice easily communicate to them .
I look upon the generality of this Tribe , to be a degree Warmer then the last , and their Heat consequently to approach nearer to the Aromatae or Spices , then the Carminatives , and the Effects therefore to be more peculiarly appropriated to such Nervous Diseases , as are more intense , and the Umbelliferae cannot so quicklyreach , Viz Apolexies , Epilepsies , Palsies , &amp;c. in which cases our Lavender , Rosemary , Sage , Staechas , and some others , are Simples which all our ancient Physicians ( in these stubborn Diseases ) have very much applauded .
Yet at the same time we must not forget the many Celebrated Effects that are owing to some others of this Family , as Mint , Bawm , Pennyroyal , Savory , Time , Hyssop , Marjerom , Basil , Origanum , Dittanny of Creet , Marum or common Mastick-time , with Marum Syriacum and some other , no less Noble Herbs of this Family , that I have lately received both from the East and West-Indies , which I have also Experienced in some Cases with very good success .
3 .
We proceed next to those herbs which have a Tetrapetalose Regular Flower , ( by Regular I mean , such as have Four equal petala in each Flower ) , these Mr. Ray Treats of in his Sixteenth Book of his History of Plants , and in his Synopsis Stirpium Brittannicarum page .
108 .
and in his Second Edition .
p. 164 .
under the Title of Herbae Flore ~ uniformi and by Mr. Dale in his Pharmocalogia , under the same Character page .
292 .
these in Relation to their Seed-Vessels , are sub-divided under two Heads .
Viz .
Siliquosae vel Capsulatae , being such as have their Seeds contained in long or short receptacles as Podds or Capsules .
The known Herbs of this Genus that are most commonly used in Physic , are the following , Viz .
The Sinapi , Raphanus , Eruca , Alliaria , Paronychia or Whitlow grass , Sophia Chyrurgorum , Erysimum , Nasturitum , Cocheariae utriusq ; with some others .
The most Essential Virtue and use of the Herbs of this Class I observe are more particularly in the Leaves and Seed , and next them the Roots , and if any parts are slighed , it 's the Flowers and Podds .
The Leaves are more particularly used in the Water and Garden Crosses , Sea and Garden Scurvy-grass , Hedge-Mustard , Iberis , or Sciatica Crosses , Lepidium seu Piperitis Officinarum , Cardamine , Bursa pastoris , &amp;c. To which may be added our Cabbage , Coleworts , Savoys , Sprouts , &amp;c. which are of this Tribe also ; and tho ' they are of no great Reputation in Physic , yet for some Ages past they have got no small esteem in the Kitchen .
Others of this Family that are more peculiarly eminent for the Virtue contained in their Seed , are the Common Mustard and Rape , the Thaspi Dioscoridis or Treacle Mustard , the Eruca or Rocket , and Sophia Chyrurgorum or Flixweed , the Seed of which last I am informed , by a very Worthy Member of this Society , hath for some Years past been used by several People in the North of England , for the Stone and Gravel with with very good success .
The like hint , if I mistake not , Signior Paul Boccone gives us in his late Italian Book , Entitled Museo di Fisica .
We come now to the Roots , Two or Three of which have gained no small repute , as well in Diet as Physic , Viz .
The Radishes , both Garden and Spanish , ( which is the large Black-rooted ; ) as also the Wild or Horse Radish , and to these the round and long Rooted Turnip must be added .
Most of this Tribe I find , tho ' they are hot like the two ~ , viz. the Umbelliserae and ~ , yet they exert their power in a much different manner , to wit , by a Diuretic volatile Salt , and are found most prevalent and effectual in Chronick Diseases , as the Scurvy , Dropsy , Gout , Jaundice , and other ill habits of the Body , where the Blood is vitiated , rather in it 's Particles , then irregular Motion , carrying off it 's impurity by a Diuretic ~ or discharge of the offending Heterogeneos ~ therein contained , and consequently by purification , disposing of it to a better , or more sane disposition .
Whether these conjectures agree with the opinion of some Practitioners of Physic , I know not , but I am certain the effects of many of these Herbs , as WaterCresses , Garden and Sea Scurvy-grass , with Mustard seed , and Garden and ~ Radish , ~ are all of this Family , are by most , if not all Physicians , as well Ancient as Mordern , allowed to be extraodinary Diureticks and Anti-scorbuticks .
Something more might be said on these Heads , and some other Classes , which at another time I shall endeavour to Illustrate , if what I have here already humbly offered , may be thought Worthy the acceptance of so Illustrious and Learned a Society May the 10th .
1699 .

