Now , by combining these equations , after having taken the fluxions of each a proper number of times , all the intermediate quantities between ( ?
) and ( i ) may be made to disappear ; and we shall finally obtain , ( o ) ( -l ) ( ) 'P ?
d : 1.2.3 ... z2 di and by restoring the expressions that ( o ) and ( i ) stand for , d* 7{)id_ } CO : ( i ) ( ) X. dn ij 1.2.3 ... z2i die But , from the series equal to C ) , we get di C(i ) =---=1.3.5 ... ( 2-- ) .
d(y Wherefore , C(i)-()a ( x _)^ 2.4.6 ... 2i die From this very simple expression , the most remarkable properties of the coefficients of the expansion of - , are very readily , deduced .
s. We may suppose that the indefinitely small molecule dm is a parallelopiped , of which the height is equal to dR ' ; and the length to , / 8 , the small line described by the motion of R ' perpendicular to the plane of y , z ; and the breadth to R ' d ' V -i -~ the small line described by the motion of R ' parallel to the same plane .
The volume of the molecule is therefore equal to d R ' x R ' d , R'dX wdV / ; and , if e be put for its density , we shall have dmeRdR'dgdw ' .
Again , we have , ft-r/ _- !
2 PR'7 4+R2 , V(r)=/ din ; and , by taking the fluxions with regard to r , d. v ( r)\ fd r R'y ) dr f But , rrR'y f2 rR ' y R'2 ; wherefore , d. V ( r)\ r fdm dm ( r R'r z ) -d -d r -J f rJ f'3and , by adding the equivalent quantities , 2V ( r ) and 2 / 2d , we get 2 W ( r ) dm , Jdm ( r R ' y -R/ 2 ) V)-.\ ( r )f r ; and by substituting the value of d m , V(r ) d. Vr)r 3 5RdR R ' 3(r .
R ' V(r ) dr r dd. .
+ --}3 or , which is the same thing , ( d. v , ( r3f=JId rJ dR ' .
d'r / J d\~R ' In the present paper , we confine our attention to a homogeneous body , or fluid mass ; and , e being constant , we may suppose it equal to unit ; then , having integrated the last equation with regard to the variable R ' , we shall get , v(r ) J , -.(d-r-)3R ' R3 d , d )l ' dr f In this formula , R ' is the line drawn from the origin of the co-ordinates to the surface ; and the integration with respect to if , is to extend from p , '= i to t=i1 ; and that with respect to wr , from - , =o to ar ' =2 r , or the whole circumference .
The preceding formula is true , whether the attracted point be without or within the body .
There is however a distinction between the two cases .
If we multiply by , and then integrate , we shall get V(r ) _r dr R'd1da ' rJ r3JJ V^/ r.'rR':+ R''3 no constant quantity being necessary when the attracted point is without the body , because both the quantities vanish when r is infinitely great .
But when the attracted point is within the body , it is necessary to add a constant quantity , because dV ( r ) ' , is not evanescent when r= o : in this case , therefore , we have v ( r ) _K_ ; r ?
R va + KX ' ' 3jJ I rj-2 r I'+ R ' " K ; and V ( r ) r f_ 3 .
2-T R , + ' ; -t ' K rK , K being a quantity independent of r. It is necessary to find an expression of the value of K. For this purpose we have , V _r)dm _fr T R'zdR dr/ d , W v ( r)f ) J -J J '2 r Ri rRy +R ' Expand the denominator in a series of the ascending powers of r ; then , V ( r ) =fffR'dR'd.'dz ' + rfff C(I ) d 'dp ' a+r fffS- .
C( d ' d'l + &amp;c. The integrations with respect to d R ' should be executed from R ' o , to the value of R ' at the surface of the body ; which cannot be done , because all the terms after the two first would be infinite .
Conceive a sphere to be described about the origin of the co-ordinates with the radius r ; then the whole value of the function V ( r ) will be equal to its value with respect to the sphere added to its value with respect to the matter between the sphere and the surface of the body .
The attracted point being in the surface of the sphere , the first part of the value of V ( r ) will be equal to -x r ' ; and 3 the second part will be found by integrating the foregoing expression , so that all the integrals shall vanish when R'= r. Thus we get , V(r ) =4r +ff ( R'--r2 ) d dzp 3 +4 rff(R ' -r ) .
C(1)d dd+ r'fJfLog .
R'--Log .
r ) .
C(2 ) d p ' d+ If(r -R''*C(3 'd +r4J ( l_ s ) .
f(4 ) duid '+ &amp;c. Now the integral --ff r2 d 'd i ' , taken between the limits ='= i , == - ; and W'o , mz'_ 2 r ; is equal to -r2 .
All the other parts of the above expression that contain r , are evanescent ; because we have generally , ff C( d ' d ' =o .
In order to prove this , it is to be observed that M ' , ' and y are the cosines of the three sides of a spherical triangle , and r ' is the angle opposite to the side whose cosine is y now if we put 4 for the angle opposite to the side whose cosine is p , we may write die d4 in place of dp 'd ' , making y and , vary between the same limits as t ' and w ' .
This is allowable ; not that we must conceive the two fluxions as continually equal to one another , but because the total sum , between the prescribed limits , is , in either case , equal to the whole surface of the sphere .
If now we substitute the value of C(i given in ? ?
2 , the foregoing expression will become , and the integral is ; I.4.6 2 ... dr- , ; a quantity which , being divisible by i_ , is evanescent at both the limits of y. Omitting what has been proved to be evanescent in V ( r ) , and collecting into one sum all the parts multiplied by r2 , and separating them from the rest , we get V ( r ) f2 .
d/ 'd + rx { -.log .
R'x C(2)d'dar }+ rJ R'C(Idi d as rr'WC(3}dtl d rrcVfa.d.v .
z"JJ:-R 's c. which expression may be thus written in finite terms , viz. V(r ) .
/ log .
R'xC( ) d , d as will be evident by expanding , and performing the inVr } rJ 7,.jj +r-.{ -T +fjlog .
R'xc dp ' dWI } as will be evident by expanding , and performing the inMDcccxxiv .
0~~ .
tegrations with respect to dr .
By comparing this expression of V(r ) with the foregoing one , we get , K= +f fo0g .
R ' ( 2 ) d ' d ' .
From this expression it follows that K has the same value in all similar homogeneous bodies .
Suppose another body , similar and homogeneous to the first , and having the axes of the co-ordinates similarly placed : let R ' and R ' , be lines drawn to the surface from the origin of the co-ordinates , and making the same angles with the axes ; then , K ' denoting the like quantity in the second body as K in the first , we have K=2 +Jfflog .
Rx C( ) d 'd z , 3 K'_ 2 -+f og .
Rx C(2)d ' d ' ; wherefore , K --K'=J log .
Rx C(z)d - ' d ' .
But the two bodies being similar , and R ' and R ' , lines similarly drawn in them , it follows that Rill remain unR'- ' changed , when h ' and ' vary .
Consequently , KK1 =log .
Rx ( 2 ) dd= o. 4 .
Having now laid down the properties of attraction to which we shall have occasion to refer , we are next to consider the conditions necessary to the equilibrium of a fluid mass .
These were first reduced to a uniform mode of calculation by CLAIRAUT , in his Theory of the Figure of the earth .
They are investigated in all the great treatises of rational mechanics ; in the Mecanique Analytique of LAGRANGE , the Mecanique Celeste of LAPLACE , and the Mecanique of POISSON .
The English reader will likewise find the same investigations in a work published in 1821 , under the title of Elementary Illustrations of the Celestial Mechanics , which is a translation of the first book of the Mecanique Celeste , and , in addition to the text , contains much valuable matter .
Referring to these works , we shall first merely enumerate the chief properties of the equilibrium of a fluid mass , for the sake of recalling them to the recollection of the reader ; and then make such an application of the general principles as our present purpose requires .
A heterogeneous fluid body cannot be in equilibrio , unless the outer surface be every where of the same density ; and farther , unless particles of the same density be arranged in distinct strata in the interior of the mass .
The pressure upon all equal spaces of every stratum of uniform density , that is , the force acting perpendicularly to them , and pushing them inward , must be equal .
Hence , these are called level strata , or couches de niveau , because the direction of the accelerating force , or of gravity , is every where perpendicular to them .
It is easy to perceive that the densities must decrease in approaching the outer surface .
For , in two contiguous strata of different densities , if we take two molecules equal in volume , and placed at the same point of the separating surface ; the common gravity acting upon both will produce a greater pressure in the denser molecule .
Wherefore , if the denser matter were nearer the outer surface , it would penetrate into the rarer matter below it ; which is contrary to the perfect separation of the strata of different densities .
Supposing all these conditions to be fulfilled , it readily follows that the fluid body will be in equilibrio .
For the equal pressure upon every part of the upper surface of a level stratum , being propagated through the interior fluid , will act with equal force in an opposite direction upon every part of the lower surface ; and hence , every molecule of the stratum will be equally pressed in all opposite directions .
When the fluid mass is homogeneous , the distinction of the level strata arising from the difference of their densities is lost ; but the possibility of dividing it into any number of strata separated by level surfaces , is still a necessary condition of the equilibrium .
The condition , that every level surface must be a continuous curve stretching through the whole fluid mass , imposes a limitation on the forces with which the equilibrium is possible .
All these curve surfaces are defined by a common equation between three independent co-ordinates ; and as this equation is to be found by integrating an expression containing the co-ordinates and their fluxions , the operation must be practicable , without supposing any relation between the three variable quantities .
Hence , the forces acting on the particles of the fluid must be such , that the three differential coefficients shall fulfil what is called the criterion of integrability ; otherwise the equilibrium will be impossible .
In determining the equilibrium of the fluid placed on the surfaces of the planets , the nature of the forces brought into action is such , that the problem is always free from contra ' dictory conditions .
To come now to the main object we have in view , * conceive that HKI is a body of homogeneous fluid in equilibrio 1o .
by the action of all the forces that urge Its paticles .
Let x , y , , be three rectangular co-ordinates of a point K in the surface ; and put X , Y , Z for the accelerating forces that act upon a particle at K respectively in the directions of the coordinates , and tending to diminish these lines , Supposb that K varies its position a little in the fluid 's surface ; then the condition that the resultant of the forces parallel to the co ordinates , shall be perpendicular to that surface , is expressed by this equation , viz. Xdx + Ydy+ Zdz o. In order that the equilibrium be possible , the expression just set down must be a complete differential ; which subjects the forces X , Y , Z , to the criterion of integrabilityThis condition being fulfilled , the equation of the fluid 's surface will be , f(Xdx+Ydy + Zdz ) =C , C being an arbitrary constant quantity .
If , for the sake of brevity , we represent the preceding integral by p , we shall have , p=C X_ d , y_d Z --dx d Again , let p =1X2+Y+ Z ; then p is the resultant of the forces X , Y , Z ; and it acts on a particle placed at K , inw a direction perpendicular to the flaid 's surface , and tending inward .
It is the gravity at that point .
Suppose now fhat a stratum of fluid is laid upon the surface HK I , the thickness at K being equal to the indefinitely small line K S. The new pressureat K will be proportional to the superincumbent matter multiplied by p , or by the gravity which urges a particle inward .
But , as the density is constant , the quantity of matter pressing at K , will be proportional to the thickness K S. Wherefore , if 8C represent the additional pressure at K , we shall have C ==p xKS .
Hence , K S'= -7 , _*pv X ' 'Y+ v+ z If now we suppose that $C remains constant , and , by means of the formula just set down , determine the thickness at every point ; it is evident that the stratum will press equably upon the surface of the fluid HK I , and consequently will not disturb the equilibrium by its pressure .
It remains to determine the equation of the upper surface of the stratum .
For this purpose we have , C=p xKS= xKS +(X YZ ) xKS .
The co-ordinates of the point K being x , y , z , let those of the point s be x +x , y+ Sy , z z : then KS being perpendicular to the surface HK I , it is easy to prove that , XXty =xKS p= SxKS ; wherefore , by substitution , we get SC= X+ YAy+ Z z ; that is , Cd sd+o do Sy + Az .
Consequently , + +d Sy+ Z=C+AC de r2 ray Now this expression is derived from the equation , on the one hand , by changing C into C+ SC ; and , on the other , by substituting , in the function p , the co-ordinates x+ &amp; x , y+ Jy , z+z of the upper surface of the stratum , in place of x , y , z , the co-ordinates of the surface HK I. Thus it appears , that the equation of the new fluid body is derived from that of the first one , merely by varying the constant introduced in the integration .
Before proceeding farther , it is requisite to distinguish carefully two separate cases .
The first is , when the particles of the fluid do not attract one another ; and the second , when they are endowed with attractive powers .
These are plainly two cases essentially different from one another : for , in the first , a stratum added induces no other change than an increase of pressure ; but , in the second , besides the pressure a new force is introduced , arising from the attraction which the matter of the stratum exerts upon the fluid body to which it is added .
In the first case , when there are no new forces introduced by attraction , it is manifest from what has been said , that the fluid body of which the equation is , is in equilibrio ; because the stratum presses equally upon all parts of the surface HK I. If we suppose a second stratum to be laidupon the first , and compute its thickness by the gravity at the surface N0 L , in the same manner that the thickness of the first was determined by means of the gravity at the surface HK I , we shall have another fluid body in equilibrio , of which the equation will be , c =c+ C. +'C S ' C being equal to the pressure caused by the new stratum .
And , in like manner , any number of strata may be added composing a fluid body in equilibrio .
But as strata have been added without:disturbing the equilibriimn , in like manner any number of strata below the surface HK I , may be successively taken away , so as to leave the remaining fluid in equilibrio .
The original body HKI may be thus exhausted , or reduced to an infinitesimal quantity that may be 'neglected ; and then the whole mass , both above and below the surface HK I , will consist of level strata separated by surfaces having a common equation , in which the constant quantity introduced in the integration alone varies in passing from one surface to another .
We may therefore conclude that , when the particles of the fluid do not attract one another , theonly conditions necessary for the equilibrium are , first , that the force resulting from X , Y , Z , be directed into the interior of the mass ; and , secondly , that X dx +Y die +Zdz be an exact differential .
But this first case can have no application in the theory of the figure of the planets , the leading principle of which is , that every particle of matter attracts every other particle .
We must therefore proceed to consider what new conditions are required in the second case , when the particles are possessed of attractive powers .
All the forces , whether attractive or not , that urge the particles of the fluid body HK I , are supposed to be included in the expressions X , Y , Z ; and it has been shown that the gravity arising from these forces produces , by its action upon the stratum of which the thickness is K S , equal pressures upon every point of the surface HK I. The whole mass of fluid , N0 L , will therefore be in equilibrio , if it be urged by no othe , forces .
But the attraction of the stratum upon all the matter within it , is a new force brought into play , the efbfrts of which must be balanced , otherwise the equilibrium could not subsist .
Now this new force is distinct from the pressure caused by the gravity , and can never be included in it .
Two separate principles must therefore be employed to ensure the equilibrium of the fluid body H KI , when acted upon by the two independent forces .
But a fluid body cannot be in equilibrio by the action of external forces upon it , except in one of these two ways : either there must be an equable pressure upon the outer surface ; or , all the forces that act upon every separate particle must destroy one another .
We are therefore necessarily led to suppose , that the added stratum must possess such a figure as to attract every particle in the inside with equal force in all opposite directions .
By the help of this principle , and by no other means , the fluid body HKI , will still continue to be in equilibrio when subjected to the additional pressure , and to the new attractive force .
When more strata are added , they must separately possess the property of attracting every particle in the inside with equal force in opposite directions ; by which supposition , we are brought at every step to the same circumstances , as in the case when there is no attraction between the particles .
The whole fluid mass being ultimately divided into level strata , the property common to each must belong to the aggregate of any number of them .
On the whole , it is not sufficient for the equilibrium of a homogeneous fluid body , the particles of which attract one another , that the resultant of the forces X , Y , Z , be directed inward , and that Xdx+Y die +Z dz be an exact differen4tial to these conditions it is necessary to add that , every particle placed within a stratum bounded by two level surfaces , be in equilibrio by the attraction of the stratum .
The conclusion we have arrived at does not coincide with the usual determination of the equilibrium of a fluid mass , in which no distinction is made between the two cases when the particles attract one another , and when they possess no such powers .
The difference arises from this , that no notice is commonly taken of the attraction which the thin level stratum exerts upon the fluid body to which it is added .
Every difficulty respecting this point will be removed , if it be impressed on the mind that the gravity at any level surface , and the pressure caused by it , are forces distinct from , and independent of , the attraction of the exterior matter .
In estimating the pressure , the exterior fluid is unavoidably regarded merely as inert matter subjected to external force ; and when there are active powers inherent in it , the effect of these must be separately investigated .
It is said that nothing more is requisite to the equilibrium of a homogeneous fluid , than that the pressure be equable over all the outer surface For , it is argued , since there is no distinction of density in the interior , it is always possible to trace curves that shall cut at right angles the resultants of all the forces urging the particles ; which curves will therefore be level surfaces .
But the defectiveness of this reasoning will appear if it be observed that , as every particle of the fluid is attracted by the whole mass , the curve surfaces traced in the manner described , will be entirely dependent upon the outer surface .
If the uppermost stratum , or any number of the uppermost strata be taken away , a part of the attractive force acting upon every particle will be destroyed , and the curve surfaces will no longer be perpendicular to the resultants of the remaining forces urging the particles .
Suppose that the strata are taken away successively ; then , the figure necessary to the equilibrium of the remaining fluid will change as each stratum is abstracted ; which is contrary to the just principles of the equilibrium of a fluid mass .
The level surfaces of a homogeneous fluid mass in equilibrio , are determined without ambiguity by varying the arbitrary constant of the general equation .
And as there is no doubt that the figure of the outer surface has no relation to any matter placed without it ; so any level surface , which is defined by a perfectly similar equation , must be independent of all the exterior matter .
Farther , the gravitation acting at any point of the outer surface is a function of the co-ordinates of that point , and has no dependence upon any exterior matter ; and , the like force at any level surface being the same function of the co-ordinates of that surface , it must be equally independent of the exterior matter .
And although it be admitted that every level surface must be perpendicular to the resultant of all the forces urging the particles , yet it does not follow that no modification of the forces is necessary to the equilibrium .
In reality , the foregoing observations prove that , if we reason consistently from what is allowed in the usual determination of the equilibrium of a fluid mass , we shall be led to the same conclusion at which we have already arrived ; namely , that the forces acting at any point in the interior , must be so modified by the figure of the fluid , as to render every level surface , and the gravity at every point of it , independent of the exterior matter .
We may cite as examples of the two different cases of the equilibrium of a homogeneous fluid , the hypothesis of HUYGHENS respecting the figure of the earth , which falls under the first case ; and the Newtonian theory on the same subject , which belongs to the second .
HUYGHEN'S supposed an attractive force residing in the earth 's centre , and acting with the same intensity at all distances .
Therefore , in the case of a revolving mass , every particle is urged by a constant force directed to the centre , and by a centrifugal force proportional to the distance from the axis of rotation .
As there is no attraction between particle and particle , a level stratum will act by pressure only upon the fluid below it ; and the only condition requisite to the equilibrium , is an equable pressure over all the outer surface .
But , according to NEWTON , every particle attracts every other particle ; and a level stratum will act upon the fluid below it , both by the pressure of gravitation and by its own attractive force .
In this theory , therefore , the adjustment of the equilibrium requires the joint application of both the principles of the second case .
The method of investigation followed in what goes before , is similar to a process of reasoning in CLAIRAUT'S theory of the figure of the earth ; and it is certainly surprising that the difference of the two cases was not remarked by that acute geometer .
Other authors have very generally adopted a more simple procedure introduced by EULER .
It will be worth while to set before the reader very briefly the steps of EULER'S investigation , for the purpose of pointing out the omission with which it is chargeable .
Suppose that the fluid mass in equilibrio is divided into indefinitely small rectangular parallelopipeds by planes parallel to those of the co-ordinates ; and let x , y , z , be the co-ordinates of one angle of a parallelopiped which has dx , die , dz , for its sides , and which we may conceive to be so placed , that x+ dx , y+ die , z+ dz , are the co-ordinates of the opposite angle .
The forces that act upon the parallelopiped are ; the pressure of the adjacent fluid upon its six faces ; and the accelerating forces X , Y , Z , urgingsevery particle in directions parallel to x , y , z , and tending to increase these lines .
The pressure at any point of the.fluid must depend upon the situation of that point , or it must be some function p of the co-ordinates x , y , z : and , according to the principles of the differential calculus , cp will retain the same value over all the three faces of the parallelopiped that comprehend any one of the solid angles .
Now , y and z remaining constant , if we substitute x+ dx in place of x , c will be changed into p + .
dx ; and the two quantities p and p+ - .
dx , will represent the intensities of pressure upon the opposite rectangles comprehended by die and dz : the forces compressing the parallelopiped are therefore vx die dz , and ( p + dx ) die dz ; and the difference , or f dx dydz is the force causing the parallelopiped to move in a direction tending to diminish x. In like manner , the pressures on the other sides produce the forces d dxdydz and d dxdydz , causing the parallelody ~~d z piped to move in directions tending to diminish y and z. Again , the accelerating forces X , Y , Z , acting on every parallelopiped produce the motive forces Xd die dz , Ydxdydz , Z dxdy dz , tending to increase the lines x , y , z. But the equilibrium of the parallelopiped requires the equality of the opposite forces : wherefore , d( -X ' die =xdz = -=X , I y= Z. Hence , we get , dq =Xd , +Ydy + Zdz .
Wherefore if we trace a stratum of the fluid so that s shall every where have the same value , the figure of the stratum will be defined by the equation Xdx + Ydp +Z dz = o ; which likewise shows that the resultant of the accelerating forces is perpendicular to the stratum .
In what has been said , the equilibrium of every parallelopiped is established with respect to all the outward forces extrinsic to its own matter .
If the question relate to no other forces , the whole fluid mass , and all the level strata of which it consists , will be in equilibrio , and the problem is solved .
But when the-particles of the fluid attract one another , there are forces not yet taken into account , inherent in every parallelopiped , by means of which it will act upon all the exterior matter , and the efforts of which must be balanced , otherwise the equilibrium could not subsist .
Now , if we suppose , as before , that all the level strata are possessed of such a figure as to act upon particles in the inside with equal forces in opposite directions , it is evident , that every parallelopiped will be in equilibrio by its action upon all the matter on the outside of the stratum .
With regard .
to the matter in the inside , a parallelopiped will act upon it effectively ; but , the united attraction of all the parallelopipeds in the same stratum upon every interior particle being equal in opposite directions , it will not disturb the equilibrium of the fluid below the stratum .
Therefore , when we take into account all the forces that act upon the parallelopipeds ; both those urging them externally , and those inherent in their own matter ; it is evident , that all the molecules in the same level stratum will be in equilibrio with respect to the matter above them , and that they will press equably upon the fluid body below them , by the action of the gravity alone .
The fluid mass will therefore be in equilibrio with respect to all the forces in action .
Thus , in every view of the problem , it appears that , when nothing essential is omitted , the particular conformation of the level strata which annihilates their action upon particles in the inside , is just as necessary to the equilibrium of the fluid mass , as the equality between the pressure and the effect of the accelerating forces .
There is another way of arriving at the same conclusion , which , in reality , first led to the suspicion of some defect lurking in the usual determination of the equilibrium of a fluid mass .
This new view of the subject , which applies only to the law of attraction that takes place in nature , is contained in the two following propositions .
PROPOSITION I. If a homogeneous fluid body revolving about an axis , be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles in the inverse proportion of the square of the distance ; any other mass of the same fluid having a similar figure , and revolving with the same rotatory velocity about an axis similarly placed , will likewise be in equilibrio , supposing that its particles attract one another by the same law .
Suppose that a homogeneous fluid body revolves about the axis AB , and is in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles and the centrifugal force ; and let another mass of the same fluid , similar in its figure to the first body , revolve , in the same time , about the axis a b , similarly situated to A B : this latter body will also be in equilibrio .
Conceive that the body in equilibrio is divided into an indefinitely great number of thin level strata ; and let the other body be divided into the same number of strata by surfaces similar , and similarly situated to the level surfaces of the first body .
Take any point H in a level surface of the , body in equilibrio ; and in the corresponding surface of the other body , let the point h be similarly situated to H. Farther , suppose the two bodies are similarly divided into the same indefinitely great number of molecules , of which dm and dm ' are any two situated alike , and therefore having their volumes and quantities of matter proportional to the volumes and quantities of matter of the two whole bodies : and letf and f ' denote the respective distances of the points H and h from dm and dm ' , and r and r ' , their respective distances from the axes AB and a b. The forces with which the molecules dm and dn ' attract the points H and h ( which must be considered as two equal dm d , in particles of matter ) are proportional to " and : and , in these fractions , the numerators being proportional to the cubes , and the denominators to the squares , of any two homologous lines of the respective bodies , the attractive forces will be simply proportional to any two such lines .
The lines f and f ' , in the directions of which the forces act , are likewise similarly inclined to the surfaces passing through the two points H and h. It follows , therefore , that the forces with which the similar molecules into which the two bodies are divided , attract the points H and h , are constantly in , the same proportion to one another , and act in directions , that make like angles with the surfaces passing through the same points .
Farther , since the velocity of rotation is the same in the two bodies , the centrifugal forces urging the points H and h will be proportional to the respective distances from the axes AB and a b ; that is , to r and r ' , or to any homologous lines of the respective bodies ; and the same forces , having their directions in the prolongations of r and r ' , make like angles with the surfaces passing through H and h. Wherefore all the accelerating forces urging the points H and h , are respectively in the same proportion to one another ; and have like inclinations to the surfaces passing through the same points .
Consequently , the resultants of the same forces will follow the like proportion , namely , that of any homologous lines ; and they will likewise be similarly inclined to the two surfaces .
But the resultant of the acceleratin'g forces acting at H , is perpendicular to the level surface passing through that point ; wherefore , the resultant of the accelerating forces acting at h , is likewise perpendicular to the surface in which that point is placed , and has to the other resultant the same proportion of any two homologous lines of the respective bodies .
And thus , as in the body in equilibrio , the gravity , or the resultant of the accelerating forces is every where perpendicular to the level surfaces ; so in the other body , the like force is every where perpendicular to the surfaces similarly situated .
Take K and k any other two points similarly situated in the same surfaces that contain H and h : and suppose that H M , KN , are the thicknesses of the level stratum , in the upper surface of which H and K are placed ; and , in like manner , let hmk n , be the thicknesses of the like stratum in the other body .
Farther , put G , G ' for the resultants of the accelerating forces , or the gravitations , at H and K ; and g , g ' for the like forces at h , k. Because H and h are points similarly situated , the forces G , g are proportional to any homologous lines of the respective bodies .
The same thing is true of the forces G ' , g ' .
Wherefore , G:G ' : : g : g ' .
But the line HM is homologous to h m , and K N , to k n : wherefore , HM : KN : : hm : kn .
Consequently , GxHM : G'x KN::g x hm : g'x km .
But the proportion of GxHM to G ' xKN is equal to that of the pressures of the stratum upon the fluid below it at the points H and K : for the quantities of mhatter in the stratum are proportional to the thicknesses HM and KN ; and the pressures are proportional to the gravitations multiplied by the quantities of matter .
In like manner gxhm and g ' xk n , are proportional to the pressures of the stratum upon the fluid below it at the points h and k. Wherefore the pressures at H and K are proportional to the pressures at h and k. And , in general , taking any points similarly placed in the two corresponding surfaces , the pressures of the stratum upon the fluid below it in one body are in the same proportion to one another , as the pressures of the stratum upon the fluid below it in the other body .
But in the body in equilibrio , the pressures at all points are equal ; wherefore , in the other body , a stratum likewise presses equably upon the fluid below it .
And what is true of each individual stratum , must be true of the accumulated pressure of any number of superincumbent strata .
Thus , in the two bodies , every thing is similar .
The forces which urge the particles of one , are , in the case of the other , all increased , or all diminished , in the same proportion , while they act in like directions .
If , in the one , the gravity be every where perpendicular to the level surfaces ; the like force is perpendicular to the surfaces similarly traced in the other : and if , in the first , all the level strata press equably upon the fluid below them ; the same thing is true of the strata into which the second is divided .
Wherefore , the equilibrium of one body is a necessary consequence of the equilibrium of the other .
PROPOSITION II .
If a homogeneous fluid mass revolve about an axis , and be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles in the inverse proportion of the square of the distance ; all the level surfaces will be similar to the outer one : and any stratum of the fluid contained between two level surfaces will attract particles in the inside with equal force in opposite directions .
Suppose that the homogeneous fluid body RS T , revolving about thze axis A B , is in equilibrio by the centrifugal force , and the attraction of its particles in the inverse proportion of the square of the distance .
The axis of rotation A B , will pass through G , the centre of gravity of the fluid mass .
In the interior of the revolving body , trace , round the point G , any surface HI K , similar and similarly situated to the outer surface .
Then the whole fluid body R ST , and the part of it bounded by the surface HI K , are similar to one another in their figure ; and they revolve about the common axis A B , which cuts them both similarly : wherefore , because the first body is in equilibrio , the latter body will also be in equilibrio , supposing that it revolves by itself , the exterior matter being taken away , or annihilated.* And , because the body HIK is in equilibrio , when it revolves by itself , the resultant of the forces acting at its surface ( namely , the attraction of its own particles and the centrifugal force ) will , at every point , be perpendicular to that surface .
Suppose now that all the fluid exterior to the surface H:I K is divided into very thin strata by the surfaces 0 PQ , L MN , similar and similarly situated to the outer surface RS T. Then , understanding by the gravitation at any of the surfaces OP Q , L MN , &amp;c. the resultant of the centrifugal force and the attraction of the fluid matter within that surface , it has been proved that these gravitations are perpendicular to the respective surfaces .
Wherefore the uppermost stratum will be pressed perpendicularly upon the surface OPQ by the gravitation at that surface .
For the same reason the next stratum will be pressed perpendicularly upon the surface L MN .
And , in like manner , the successive strata will be pressed perpendicularly , each upon the surface on which it lies , by the respective gravitations .
If we conceive a curve line GHLOR , extending from the common centre G so as to cut all the similar surfaces at right angles ; that curve line will mark the directions both of the gravitation and the pressure of the fluid in the interior of the body RST .
Wherefore the several surfaces OP Q , LMN , &amp;c. are no other than the level surfaces of the body R ST in equilibrio ; and each of these surfaces will be pressed by the superincumbent fluid with the same intensity over its whole extent .
But at the same time that the uppermost stratum presses upon the fluid below it , by the gravitation at the surface OPQ , it likewise attracts every particle of matter within the same surface .
And , in like manner , every successive stratum both presses on the surface on which it lies by the gravitation at that surface , and attracts all the particles within it .
Wherefore the body HIK is not only pressed by the superincumbent fluid , but every particle of it , is likewise attracted by all the exterior matter .
These forces are independent on one another .
Although the body HIK be in equilibrio with respect to the pressure it sustains , it does not follow that it will likewise be in equilibrio with respect to the attraction which the exterior matter exerts upon it .
In order that this latter equilibrium take place , it is necessary that every stratum of the exterior matter be possessed of such a figure as to attract all particles in the inside with equal force in opposite directions .
We have now proved that , if the fluid mass R ST be in equilibrio , the interior body HIK will likewise be in equilibrio when it revolves by itself , the exterior matter being taken away , or annihilated ; which cannot be the case , unless the same body HIK be in equilibrio with respect to the pressure and attraction which the exterior matter exerts upon it .
It has likewise been proved that all the surfaces OPQ , L MN , &amp;c. similar to the outer surface RST , are level surfaces ; and this ensures the equilibrium of the interior body HIK with respect to the pressure it sustains .
Its equilibrium with respect to the attraction of the exterior matter , requires farther , that all the strata between the surfaces RS T , P Q , L MN , &amp;c. attract every particle within them equally in opposite directions .
We are therefore to conclude that the homogeneous fluid body RST , which revolves about the axis A B , and the particles of which attract one another in the inverse proportion of the square of the distance , cannot be in equilibrio , unless both these conditions be fulfilled ; ist .
The level surfaces must be all similar to one another ; 2dly .
Every stratum contained between two level surfaces must attract particles in the inside with equal force in opposite directions .
In the Proposition that has just been proved , the similarity of the level surfaces is an accidental property connected with the supposed law of attraction .
In the general hypothesis of an attractive power between the particles , the conditions of equilibrium are no more than these : ist .
The resultant of the accelerating forces acting at every point of the outer surface must be directed at right angles towards that surface : edly .
All the level strata must possess such a figure as to attract particles in the inside with equal force in opposite directions .
It may not be altogether superfluous to prove , by a synthetic demonstration , that these conditions are sufficient for the equilibrium .
This is done in the following Proposition .
PROPOSITION III .
If a homogeneous fluid mass fulfil the two above-mentioned conditions , it is in equilibrio .
Let the equation of the outer surface of the fluid mass , be cp=C ; p representing a function of three rectangular co-ordinates , x , y , z. Then the accelerating forces parallel to the axes of x , y , z , will be respectively equal to d , , d ; and the condition that the resultant of these forces is perpendicular to the surface of the fluid will be expressed by the differential equation , dx d die +d dz = o. We shall suppose that the whole fluid mass is divided into thin strata by level surfaces , which are determined by making the constant quantity C vary by insensible degrees in the equation of the outer surface .
Farther , let the thickness of the uppermost stratum be denoted by the line k , drawn perpendicular to the outer surface from a point of which the co-ordinates are x , y , z ; and let x --x , y ay , z--z , be the co-ordinates of the other extremity of k in the under surface of the stratum .
The equation of this surface will be found by substituting x AS , y Jy , z Sz , in place of x , y , z , in the function p , and by changing C into C-C ; it will therefore be , --nd --y -b Zs -C-C C : and by subtracting this from the equation of the outer surface , we get d@ a+ dp Sy +PSZ= C. Again ; if we put,._ ] JR .
+P= Y/ ( Vdg , ) + |e } " Y:dz then , because the line k is perpendicular to the outer surface , it follows , from the known properties of curve surfaces , that the cosines of the angles which k makes with the co-ordi , nates , are respectively equal to , td dx dq iB -x Tx p % die sp dz and hence , kdk db k dq T=^x , ; ^=^x^ ; ;=-x ' =p dx yp Tie -p and by substituting these values in the preceding formula , we obtain , + .
, 2k Id dx -PX *t\ dxp kff x pC .
Now p is the resultant of the accelerating forces at the surface.and the line k , or the thickness , is proportional to the quantity of matter in the stratum at the same point ; wherefore k xp is the pressure ; and the formula , k. , kxp S C , shows that the uppermost stratum presses upon the fluid below it equally at all points .
As the attraction of the whole fluid mass is one of the component forces of the gravitation p , the attraction of the stratum must enter as a part of the same force .
But it is evidently only an infinitely small part of it ; and consequently produces only an infinitely small part of the pressure px k. We may therefore consider the gravitation at the outer surface , and the pressure of the uppermost stratum upon the fluid below it , as both independent of the attractive force of the matter of the stratum .
But the attraction of the same matter upon all the particles within the stratum is a force of the same order with the pressure px k , and comparable with it , and which must not be neglected .
Thus it appears , that the uppermost stratum acts upon the fluid below it both by pressure and by attraction ; and , as all the level strata are derived from one another by the same law , it follows , that every stratum in the interior likewise acts upon the fluid below it both by pressure and by attraction .
Now it has already been shown , that the pressure of the uppermost stratum is the same over all the surface of the fluid below it ; and the same thing , it is manifest , is equally true of any level stratum .
Wherefore , since the strata press equably upon one another , any fluid body in the interior , bounded by a level surface , will be in equilibrio with respect to the pressure it sustains from all the superincumbent strata .
But , according to the second condition in the hypothesis of the proposition , the same body will also be in equilibrio with respect to the attraction of all the exterior strata .
Thus , every interior fluid body bounded .
by a level surface , is in equilibrio with respect to all the forces which the exterior matter exerts upon it .
And , as this is true independently of the dimensions of the interior body , we may suppose that it is ultimately reduced to a quantity infinitely small , which exerts no force , and is in equilibrio by the external forces acting upon it .
Then the whole fluid mass will be resolved into level strata , that are in equilibrio with respect both to the pressures and to the attractive forces , which they exert MDcccxxIV .
R upon one another .
We are therefore to conclude , that the two conditions of the proposition are sufficient to ensure the equilibrium of the fluid mass , and that both are necessary to produce the effect .
5 .
Having established the physical properties of a homogeneous fluid mass in equilibrio , the investigation of its figure , which is now brought within the power of analysis , is not attended with much difficulty .
If a homogeneous body of fluid revolve about an axis , and be in equilibrio by the centrifugal force and the attraction of its particles , the axis of rotation will pass through the centre of gravity .
This point is to be supposed at rest ; since it is not the effect of any external forces that we have to consider , but merely the mutual action of the particles upon one another .
If one of the planes of the co-ordinates pass through the centre of gravity at right angles to the axis of rotation , the other two will intersect one another in the same axis .
Let a , b , c , denote the co-ordinates of an attracted point ( which must be considered as some small particle of the fluid containing a given quantity of matter ) placed any where in the mass , a being parallel to the axis of rotation ; and put r== V / a+ b'^+ , .
Suppose also that V ( r ) denotes the sum of all the molecules of the body divided by their respective distances from the attracted point : then I V'(r ) I.(r ) dc(r will be the accumulated attractive forces exerted upon the attracted point by the whole mass , in the directions of a , b , c , and tending to increase these lines .
Again ; let w be the centrifugal force at the distance from the axis of rotation equal to unit ; then , the distance of the attracted point from the same axis being equal to Vbt+ c , the centrifugal force urging it from the axis , will be Xx v/ b2 c2 ; and the effect of the same force to lengthen b and c , will be equal to , x vb +xb and +cx h2 Cx vb2or to Xb AS/ b2 CZ4bc+ .
and e c. Hence , the forces acting upon the attracted point , and tending to increase a , b , c , are respectively , d. V ( r ) da ' d. V ( r ) , db + b.b , d. V(r ) -d b +.C .
Now , the resultant of these forces must be perpendicular to the level surface of which a , b , c are the co-ordinates ; which condition is expressed by this differential equation , viz. d.V(r ) da d.V ( r ) db + d.V( ) d ( bdb + cdc ) = and the integral of this , viz. V(r ) + ( b2+C2)==CC is the general equation of all the level surfaces .
Let t denote the cosine of the angle which the line r makes with the axis of rotation ; and the foregoing equation will become , V ( r ) + . ?
r( )=C .
And if we put R for the radius of the outer surface of the fluid body , we shall have , for the equation of that surface , V(R)+R'x .
( 1 )-C,. .
( A ) which is one condition of the equilibrium of the fluid mass .
The equation just found is an essential condition of the equilibrium , although it is not the only one .
As it merely expresses that the resultant of all the accelerating forces is perpendicular to the fluid 's surface , it is not confined to a homogeneous body , nor to one entirely fluid , but is true in every case when a fluid in equilibrio covers , either entirely or partially , the surface of any body , however variable in structure or density .
Now , from the equation , we get , V(R ) R2-- " C ' and , as it has been proved in ? .
i , that vR ) is always a function of three rectangular co-ordinates of a point in the surface of a sphere , it follows that 4r , and consequently R , must be like functions .
This inference , being founded on considerations of the most general nature , cannot but include every case of a fluid in equilibrio , placed upon the surface of a revolving body .
Again , suppose that R , is the radius of any level surface which contains the attracted point within it ; and let V , ( r ) denote the sum of all the molecules of the fluid within the level surface , divided by their respective distances from the attracted point : then , V(r ) -V , ( r ) will be the sum of the molecules in the stratum of fluid contained between the outer surface and the level surface , divided by their respective distances from the attracted point ; and the attractive forces of the stratum upon the attracted point in the directions of a , b , c , will be respectively , d { V(r)--V , ( r ) da d. V(r)-V , ( r ) } db ' d. { V(r)-V , ( r ) } dc Now , in the case of a homogeneous mass of fluid in equilibrio , these forces must be evanescent ; and that too , for every point within the stratum , which requires that V(r ) -V , ( r ) , shall be a constant quantity independent of a , b , c. And this is the remaining condition necessary to the equilibrium .
Now , if we put , Q fr2fd fdr R ' , d , , 'dd Q , J r3ef 2r 2r R ' 7+ R7^ Q , -r2- &lt; jjvr2 r , R + R ' ; we shall get , V(r)=Q + Kr V , ( r)=Q + K , r : consequently , V(r ) V , ( r ) = QQ , r ( KK , ) .
A very little attention will show that Q and Q , , contain no terms multiplied by r ' .
For if we expand Q into a series of the ascending powers of r , the term containing r2 , will be r2 x JfC2 dpd ' which , by the nature of the function C( , is equal to zero .
Wherefore the foregoing expression cannot be independent of a , b , c , unless K-K , = o ; and K K , But it has already been shown that the equality of K to K , requires that the radii R ' and R ' , which make the same angles with the axes of the co-ordinates , and consequently are in the same straight line , be constantly in the same proportion to one another:* and hence we obtain this property of a homo .
geneous fluid mass in equilibrio , namely , that all the level surfaces are similar to the outer one .
Again , since R and R ' , are always in the same proportion to one another , Q Q , will be independent of a , b , c , if we make r disappear in Q. Now , by expanding the expression of Q , and equating the co-efficients of the several powers of r to zero , we get , Q =fJ R'9d1I ' dao -ffR ' .
C(')dP'd- ' =fC'(i3 ) ' RI nand generally _0 0A C , d , d In the first place , all these equations are satisfied if we suppose R'constant ; that is , if the figure of the fluid be a sphere .
But the supposition of a sphere is inconsistent with the equation ( A ) , unless a be evanescent .
Wherefore , a homogeneous fluid body of a spherical figure cannot be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles , unless it have no rotatory motion .
Again , it follows from what has been shown , that R ' is a function of [ , V1/ -/ 2 ' .
Sin -a , / 1-/ ' .
Cos w ; z ' being the cosine of an arc O ' reckoned from the pole of a great circle on the sphere , and ar ' the angle between O ' and a given great circle passing through the same pole .
Now if we suppose that R ' is an even function , or that it contains only the squares and the combinations of the squares of / g , , i~ 1-2 Siln ' ' , V/ .
Cos ' ; the values of R ' , which are always positive , will be the same in quantity , at points diametrically opposite on the sphere , at which points pi , Sin. w and Cos. t ' , are different only in their signs .
And because , yP 2 .
* -* 1 Cos. ( Cr-o .
) , it is obvious that y will likewise have the same value and different signs at any two points diametrically opposite on the sphere ; and the same property will belong to every function of y that contains only the odd powers .
Now we have R ' .
C(l ) d^ p dw ' .
-R ' .
C1 ) d O ' Sin 'd J w ' ; and , as O ' increases from o to , and ar ' from o to 2T , it is obvious that the fluxions will be the same in quantity , but will have different signs , at any two points diametrically opposite on the sphere ; because the sign of C ' ) , which is an odd function of r , alone changes .
Wherefore the integral will decrease just as much in one hemisphere as it increases in the other ; and being extended to the whole sphere , it will be equal to zero .
In the same manner it is proved that rr ( i)d , d / ^iC d^'d'cYd JJ R'- , RI whenever i is an odd number .
Thus all the equations we are considering , in which i is an odd number , are satisfied by the supposition that R ' is an even function of lp , , VI -/ .
Sin ' , V1 -_ .
Cos w. It remains to consider the cases when i is an even number , viz. i Cd &amp; .
+ &amp;c. For this purpose the following theorem is premised , viz. Theorem .
If m , mi , m " denote any positive integer numbers , such that m+ m ' f-m " is less than i ; then fSf m.(i/ x-__.i , Sin. , )m,.( 2 ... .
i " Cos. ' " " .
( i)dC zd =o , the integral being extended from t'= to it= , and from war'= o to wr'= a ir .
As expressions of this kind have been very amply discussed , and as the theorem follows very readily from the properties generally known , I shall not stop to give the demonstration .
It follows from the theorem that the equation , / y^C(4 d ' d , ' cannot be true , if -r contain any even power of the quantities ' , ,V/ -./ Z ' .
Sin. t ' , V/ 1-i .
Cos. w ' , above the square ; or if it contain any product of two or more of the squares of the same quantities .
Wherefore the most general value of R , R/ 2 , consistent with the above equation , is R , ^= A ' +B ( x --J ) Sin.2'+ C ( O-S.2 ) Cos.2 ' .
It may be observed , that this expression would not be more general by adding an absolute quantity , as D : for , since " 2+ ( 1-_ '2 ) Sin.2 '+ ( 1 - ) Cos.'2 ' i , such a quantity would blend itself with the other terms .
But the same value of r will likewise satisfy all the equations , ( wi da n udb FR / i_.z -2 in which i is an even number .
For , because i---2 RI-2 =(A+ B(1( ) Sin.* f'+ C ( 1 -- ) Cos.9 a/ ) , R ' : it follows that the expansion of lwill produce no quantiR ties in the integral except such as are evanescent by the theorem .
The most general value of t , consistent with one of the conditions of the equilibrium , has now been found .
If we write k , - , kr , for A , B , C , we shall get , I " ( , -,1 ) Sin.2 ( , ' .
IF2 ) Cos.2 W Rk1k -k s+ k " ; an equation which belongs to an ellipsoid of which k , k ' , k , are the three semi-axes .
It is therefore proved that a homogeneous fluid mass cannot be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles , and a centrifugal force of rotation , unless its figure be included in the ellipsoids .
But it is still to be shown that the same figure is consistent with the other condition of the equilibrium .
For the sake of abridging , put S= + ' " ( ' ) Sin.+ 'X '/ 2 ) Cos.'2 , then , a R'f .
The value of Q being reduced to the first term of its expansion , we have , Q -ffRIdR'$ d ff ' =.ff d : and hence , V(R)=Q + K. R2= ks.ff K R. Let this value be substituted in the equation ( A ) , and we shall obtain , kz ff+-y -C R=2K + 2(Ic-c )S And the solution of the problem is now reduced to show that this formula is similar to the equation R,2 k2 s* When this is done , the relation between the figure of the fluid mass and the given rotatory velocity will be found by making the two expressions of R and R ' coincide , so that both shall belong to the same surface .
In the first place , the integral in the numerator of the value of R2 is a function of k , k ' , k " ; and as any value may be assigned to C , the whole numerator may be regarded as an arbitrary quantity .
The denominator is therefore all that remains to be considered .
Now , K =+ f Log. R'x C ?
d ' d d ' ; 3 and , since Log. R ' Log. k Log. S , we shall get , K =.- ' +If Log. Sx C( ) d C ' d/ , d 3 because , Log. k xff C2 ) d , ' d= o. ( 2 ) 7Z .
( 2 )'l 32 Again , C0 7_.dv(d ) = -1 2.4 _t , COS. and , y= p+V --p But , because C'= Cos. 0 ' , the three last integrals will become , ffSin.2 0 ' Cos , 0 ' Sin. ' Log. S. d 0 ' dz fSin .
' Cos ' Cos. 's .
' Log. S. d 'd ' JfSin.3 6 ' Sin. z ' Cos. ' Log. S. d 'd ' : and , attending to the expression of S , it will follow that , in the two first integrals , if we suppose at to remain constant and 0 ' to vary from o to 180 ?
; the fluxions will be equal , but will have different signs , at equal distances from o and 180 ?
: wherefore the integrals , taken between the prescribed limits , are evanescent .
In the third integral , if we suppose 0 ' to remain constant and ' to vary from o to 36o ?
, the fluxions will be equal , but will have different signs , at equal distances from o and 180o in the first semicircle : and at equal distances from 180 ?
and 36o ?
in the second semicircle : wherefore the whole integral is evanescent .
Rejecting therefore the three last terms of the value of K , and representing the three remaining integrals by L , M , N , we shall get , L3 K+(-T U)=(22 )e+(_+r ) ( i- .
) Sin.2 3Z2 z)2( COS. This is the denominator in the formula for R2 , and it is entirely similar to the expression of S. Wherefore the two values of R2 and R " are alike in point of form ; and the figure of the fluid mass that corresponds to the given rotatory velocity will be determined by making them coincide .
We are now to conclude that a homogeneous fluid mass cannot be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles and a centrifugal force of rotation , unless it have the figure of an ellipsoid ; and farther , that an ellipsoid may be found that will fulfil all the conditions of the equilibrium , unless there be some cases in which the necessary relations between the figure and the given velocity of rotation , lead to equations that cannot be solved .
6 .
In order to apply the foregoing solution , it becomes necessary to compute the integrals L , M , N ; or , in other words , to find the attractive forces of an ellipsoid upon a point in the surface .
If we extend the problem generally to a point within or without the figure , it is attended with some difficulty ; and it is usual to deduce the latter case from the former , which is more easily solved .
There is however a great analogy between the two cases ; or rather the distinction between them may be dispensed with ; since the supposition of a point within the figure is equivalent to that of a point in the surface , which is the extreme case of a point without the figure .
In this view the problem admits of a general solution deducible , by a short analysis , from the transformations used in this Paper .
Suppose that k , k ' , k , represent the semi-axes of an ellipsoid ; and let x , y , z , respectively parallel to the axes , denote the three co-ordinates of a point in the surface of the figure .
Farther let a , b , c , be the co-ordinates of an attracted point without the figure ; and conceive another ellipsoid , the surface of which passes through the attracted point , and which has its principal sections in the same planes with the principal sections of the given ellipsoid , and also the differences of the squares of its semi-axes h , h ' , ht , equal to the differences of the squares of k , k ' , kl ' ; that is , hc.-h = kr"k , and e-hff ' , k'".-k2 .
The equations of the two curve surfaes , will thus be , x~ ' y2 Z ' Jr ^L + / ?
h'gh = k'-k ' ; h"'^ h'= k " ' k ' .
Again , as in the former part of this Paper , let x.ssRa =rt y=R / 1 '2 .
Sin. r , b=r V/ i2 Sin. -a z=R V- ' .
Cos. a ' , c= r/ V-/ z:Cos .
; then R and r are respectively radii of the two ellipsoids .
Farther , assume kh A ' R'p ' k R:T R RFt h ` hl S. .
Tie = , RV Si .
'=R ' V --p " Sin. q ' zk Rz =CR V/ /O .
=R Cos. q ' kk a= r'p b-rh rV _-^ViSin .
' Sin. qc =r V-'Cos .
z= r ' 1/ Cos. q From these formulae we get RI'= l2+ Y , -L " ' , R =2+ y ' +z ; and hence , -1-{ ++ it } ( -h )=w tr r'-r h'k .
Wherefore , R2 + r2= R+ r2 .
And again , ax by cz Rr = R'r'y ' ; y == ( '4+ v'i- .
'_ i-2 -y'Cos .
( - ' ) r'/ pp'+ V ' -_p2 .
V &lt; i-p2 Cos. ( q-q ' ) .
Wherefore , R2_R ry + r2 = R'22 R'r ' y ' + r'2 .
Farther , from the assumed equations we readily derive these values , viz. Tan .
zg= a , k ' Tan .
k ' ' .
Tan .
q ' , t1k p_ k h ' h " Rv'--ywi f , Rp ' ; p'A MM=k '2 h"Z Sin +2 fCos.'q RT R'IVR _pt2 .
, , And , if we now take the fluxions of the first and second of these formule ; observing , in the second operation , to make q ' , and consequently M , constant ; we shall get , dz ' dq ' .
'k " ' " d= d^9 q kJ M2 xdl_ dp ' k h ' h/ " 3-'-)3 !
x M R3 I __Rt ~M ' R3 ( i-- , " ) 2= R ( h px ) .
h , , , _ And , by combining these formulae , we obtain , k ' klk ' " R3 dp 'dl ' , F.R3 dp dq ' .
But , in ? ?
3 it has been shown , that , ( -T r =r S rf R-1 r die ' and hence , by substitution , / _I r_ _k ' k"R3 dp ' d dr h ' " ^ , R_ .
R ' d 'dl r\~~~~~n dr1 / /i2 2~h'"J ^ R-*aR-ryl + r ' Now , in the equation of the ellipsoid of which k , k ' , k " are the axes , if we substitute R ' P R ' Vlp'tSin .
R ' Cos hk I ' h " for the equivalent quantities , - , 2 , - ; we shall obtain , I p ' ( i -p ' " ) Sin. ' q ' ( p ' ) Cos. q ' R , $ hZ+(-k + R^ -- ' ~ ' ?
----h ' " -h " ' And , by a like procedure in the other ellipsoid , we obtain , , p1 _( --p ) Sin.2 -1 ( i -p ) Cos. ' T --^ =/ 112----^ Thus R ' is a radius of the ellipsoid that passes through the attracted point , and r ' a radius of the given ellipsoid which is entirely within the first figure .
The last integral may therefore be developed in a series of the ascending powers of r ' : and then , applying the same reasoning as in the former case of the developement of Q , * it will be found that all the terms are evanescent , except the first .
Thus the general term of the expansion is , r ' sC(')d pi d q ' R ' -2 2 and , when i is an odd number , this integral is equal to zero ; because the increment at any point on the surface of the sphere , is just equal to the decrement at the point diametrically opposite : and , when i is an even number , it is evanescent ; because I-contains no terms except such as are evanescent Ra z in the integral , according to the theorem in ? ?
5 .
Wherefore , the integral being reduced to the first term of its expansion , we get , -2-r3 ffR'2dp'dq ' ; p ' and q ' being taken between the same limits , as p , and ' .
Now , we have R`.P^+ ( ' ) Sin +( -p 2 ) COS.2 q ' or , which is the same thing , pR2 hhA ' Ah " ' h " ' ( h ' + ep ' ) Sin. ' q ' + h " ( h ' + e ' p ' ) Cos. ' ( ' h'---2 eh , _ h9 =-ewherefore h2 A"h ' h".ddp ' d q ' JffR ' dp ' dq ' q h " ' ( hz+ e p " ) , Sin. 2 ' + h/ ( h^ + e'2p " ) Cos. ' q ' This expression is now integrable with regard to q ' : and we get , between the limits q ' =o and q ' =2 r , A dp .
ffR2 dp ' dq'-= 2.h h h ' J( + ep ) ( + e.d JJ " .
of ?
^(h " + ey* ) .
( A ?
+ e ' ?
) The integral now found increases as much , while p ' decreases from 1 to o , as it does , while p ' decreases from o to 1 wherefore the whole value will be the same , if we make p ' vary between the limits i and o ; and then double the result thus , ffR'2 dpd q'= 4 .
h h ' h".fv h dp ' %e2p " ) .
( A + e'p'2 ) Finally put =_ -- ; then we get , ff R 's dp ' d4 q. h h ' h " .
f -v( + ) the limits of x being , x=h and x= o. Wherefore , by substitution , we get , ~d.^ dr ----ra --= .
4 ? .
k k ' k " ( + e ) ( X !
, + , e , ~ ) Now , multiply by d- , and then integrate ; and , having multiplied by r2 after the integration , we shall obtain , V(r ) = 2 .
rk k'k'.J s + " --2 r.k k ' k.o r. .
--( d + ' are 5(d2+ e2 ) ( Xr2 + e'2 ) In the expression under the sign of integration , r increases from its value at the given attracted point till it becomes infinitely great ; the angles which it makes with the axes of the co-ordinates remaining constantly the same .
But if we substitute the values of a , b , c in the equation , a2 b2 cO h2 +i+ h'-2 ; we shall get , .
( I-n ) Sin.a ( I )2 ) Cos. w , -. .
T2 +~e ' and , by writing x2 for h2 I ( I st ) Cos.2 -W_ _ ( i --)mt )s.9 .
( + LeC + .
'7 ~ ' x~ 5 xt+ e~ ' ... . .
---+-- .
Tree , ; x"x ?
x2+eI in which expression , V and a remaining the same , x will vary from h to be infinite , while r increases from its value at the given attracted point to be infinite .
Wherefore , by substitution , we get , V(r ) =-2 9 .
k k ' .
+ -dvj ( ~ + e ) ( It + e'2)2 -2 r^ k k ' k".r ^r K.dQ ^(V + ell ) ( x5l 4 el ) 2 dx e )2 ( x2+e( ' ) ) -2 r. k k ' k " .
r ( i.2 ) Sin.zTf eJ ( x2 + e'2 ) 2 kr kk'k .
r2 ( 1f2 ) COS.*r/ b + E ; ; yr _+ e ' ) '(x2 + eT ) : ( x * e , ~ ) Let M denote the mass of the ellipsoid , then M= 4 .
k k ' k"^ wherefore , by substituting a , b , c , for the equivalent quantities , we finally get , V(r ) 3 To this expression we must join the equation of the surface of the ellipsoid that passes through the attracted point , viz. a2 b2 C2 h " + h. e2 + hA s eby means of which h , the limit of x in the several integrals , is to be determined .
When the attracted point is in the surface of the given ellipsoid , it is plain that h k ; and the limit of x is , therefore , one of the semi-axes .
Thus an expression of V(r ) has been found , that is general for all positions of the attracted point ; nothing more being requisite than to determine the limit of x in every particular case .
The several integrals are closely connected with one another ; they are in forms well known to geometers , and susceptible of many transformations ; but , in a general solution , it seems most simple to leave the expression as it is above exhibited .
But although a general expression of V(r ) has been found , yet it does not immediately make known the attractive forces acting upon a point .
These forces , estimated in directions parallel to the co-ordinates , are represented by the partial fluxions of V(r ) relatively to the co-ordinates ; but , in performing the operations , it must be observed that x is a function of r , and consequently of the co-ordinates .
Thus the attractions of the ellipsoid , respectively parallel to a , b , c , are equal to , d.V(r ) d. V ( r ) dx da d 'da d.V(r ) d. V ( r ) dx db dx db d. V ( r ) d.V(r ) dx dc dx dc But , according to the foregoing value of V ( r ) , d. V(r ) M af exI dx -(a+ to ?
) ( X +t+Z+K 9 , x+ ' and as this quantity is to be valued at the limit , or when x= h , we have d ' V ( r ) = o. Wherefore the expressions of dx the attractive forces are reduced to , Id. V(r ) _ d.V(r ) da ' db d.c(r ) ; that is , to the partial fluxions of V(r ) , supposing that x is independent of the co-ordinates , a , b , c. The oblate ellipsoid of revolution , corresponds to the supposition , e= e2 ; and , in this case , we get ; 3 .
3 -M .
Md , x ' ... . .
=2M J " M. + eL ) ( b2 + C2 ) 3M '--7 the equation for finding h , the limit of x , being , a2^ + ce h"T +h4+ =-1 And , when the attracted point is in the surface of the oblate spheroid of revolution , h is equal to k ; and , if we put x =- , we get , V/ 8_3 M Arc. Tan.x a -3M Ax--Arc .
Tan.^ x , 3M Arc. Tan .
x-A rc z kn A , a % +.3 M. 3M 7 .
It may not be improper to apply the foregoing solution 7 .
It may not be improper to apply the foregoing solution to find the relation between the figure and the velocity of rotation in the case of an oblate ellipsoid of revolution .
As it has been proved that the supposed figure will satisfy one of the conditions of equilibrium , * nothing more is requisite than to employ the other condition , namely , that contained in the equation ( A ) , to determine the relation sought .
Let k be the semi-axis of revolution , and Vk2 + e , the radius of the equator ; if a , b , c be three rectangular co-ordinates of a point in the surface , a being parallel to k , the equation of the figure will be , b2 + c ?
- .
-_ __1 ke kg+e Put a_ ' R ' 9.b ; b"+c " Ri ( i --A2 ) ; e-- ) k xAx ' ; then , by substitution , we shall get , R2 ( I+2 ( ) =2( -+ xS ) .
Again , from the formula ( A ) , we get V ( R ) + R. w( - ) =C , being the centrifugal force at the distance i from the axis of rotation .
This equation must be made identical with the former one , and for this purpose we must substitute in it the value of V ( R ) reduced to a proper form .
Now , M being the mass of the spheroid , we have M= k( k2+ e2 ) 4 k3(1 +2 ) ; 33 and for the sake of abridging , if we put , A Aec .
Tan .
A AA3 Arc. Tan .
A 2.A3..v and likewise:attend to the values of a and b+ c2 , we shall get by the formula in ? ?
6 , V(R ) 2 : k ( i + ) Arc. Tan_2 .
( i + B( + )( -B ) .
: and hence , by substitution , the equation we are considering , when brought to the same formof expression as the first one , will become , ( X +X)(A-B)+ 1 +S ) Are )%Ta , xC R 1+ -= ; .
=4X X , _aX2 e ( I + A ) BJ ( I -+A ) B-4 A1 A By comparing the two equations , it will appear that the only condition necessary to make them identical , is this , vix , ( x+^A ) ( A-B)+ r^ X- . ?
x ; . .
c_ _ ' A2 ; ( x I4 .
)B~4.r for the terms on the right-hand sides will be made to coincide by giving a proper value to the arbitrary quantity C. Hence , -4 ( -I+ x)BA .
Now put , *O ' then , restoring the values of A and : B , we shall obtain , 'q- ' ( --x 933 From this formula it appears that q= o , both when x is equal to zero and when it is infinitely great .
There is therefore no rotatory motion in either of the extreme cases , when the oblateness is nothing , and when it is infinite ; or when the fluid mass is a sphere , and when it is a circular sheet spread out in the plane of the equator .
In order to discover whether q is evanescent in any other circumstances , put Tan .
q=x then qX _(c--(1 Cos t 9n 3 ' SinSi n^ i. or , in a series , =2 Sin.2 q , Sin.4 " =.+.6 Sin , 5 57 5-7.9 '9 _ , _.6.8 S in ?
, S in 5 &amp;c. 9 .
Now this series being evanescent both when Sin. , 4 o , and when Sin. p= i , it follows that , for every other value of Sin. p , q will be positive ; and hence it will first increase from zero to a maximum , and then decrease to the first limit .
If we seek the value of x that will make qa maximum , we shall find this equation , viz. Arc. Tan .
X x9 +7i+ 9+ from which x comes out equal to 2'5292 .
And hence 1/ 1 -+ , which is the proportion of the equatorial diameter to the polar axis , is equal to 2.7197 .
From all this it follows , that if a homogeneous mass of fluid in equilibrio , at rest , and consequently of a spherical figure , begin to revolve about a diameter , it will become more and more oblate as the velocity of rotation increases , till the equatorial diameter have to the polar axis the proportion of 2'7197 to i : arrived at this point the rotatory velocity must decrease , in order that the fluid in equilibrio continue to have the figure of an ellipsoid of revolution with increasing oblateness ; in so much that while the oblateness tends to be infinite , and the fluid to become a circular sheet in the plane of the equator , the velocity of rotation continually approaches to zero .
As the oblateness increases without ceasing , there is but one rotatory velocity with which a spheroid of a given figure will be in equilibrio .
But when a fluid mass is to revolve in a given time , and the figure that will maintain the equilibrium is sought , there are two solutions , if the proposed rotation be within the maximum , and one only , when it reaches that limit .
When the rotatory velocity is greater than the maximum , the equilibrium cannot take place : for , on the one hand , the proposed rotation is inconsistent with the figure of an ellipsoid ; and , on the other , it has been proved , that a homogeneous fluid cannot be in equilibrio unless it have that figure .
In this case , therefore , the fluid would first extend itself , and flatten to a certain degree with a decreasing velocity of rotation , and then oscillate back with an increasing rotatory motion .
But the tenacity of the particles would gradually diminish , and finally destroy , the oscillations of the fluid ; which would therefore ultimately settle in one of the figures of equilibrium ; that is , in an elliptical spheroid of revolution having the equatorial diameter more than 2'7179 times the axis of revolution .
When the oblate figures are little different from spheres , as in the case of the planets , x , which is equal to the excentricity of the meridian divided by half the polar axis , is so small that we may consider x2 as equal to Sin.2 p , and may reject all the powers of these two quantities .
The series for q will thus be reduced to its first term , viz. q ?
Sin2 q = .
5 ?
But the polar axis is to the equatorial diameter as i to t/ l , + or as i to 1+ A* : wherefore the same proportion is equal to that of 1 to 1 + .
Again , we have q now , ?
being the mass of a sphere of which the density and the radius are each equal to unit , it will represent the gravitation at the surface ; and , if we suppose the same sphere to revolve with the given rotatory velocity , c will be the centrifugal force at the equator .
Wherefore q is the proportion of the centrifugal force at the equator to the gravity ; a proportion which remains the same in all spheres that have the same density and the same velocity of rotation , because both the quantities increase as the radius of the sphere .
Hence , in a planet of small oblateness , the value of q to the degree of approximation mentioned , is equal to the proportion of the centrifugal force to the gravitation at the equator ; and the proportion of i to 1+q is equal to that of the polar axis to the equatorial diameter .
8 .
In the determination of the equilibrium of a homogeneous fluid mass investigated in this Paper , two conditions are found necessary when the particles are endowed with attractive powers ; whereas , in the usual solution of the problem one only is deemed sufficient , namely , that contained in equation ( A ) , which expresses that the resultant of the accelerating forces acting upon the particles in the outer surface : shall be every where perpendicular to that surface .
It is extremely remarkable that , of the two conditions , the one which is usually omitted , alone and without reference to the other , ascertains the kind of the figures of equilibrium .
M'LAURIN first proved synthetically that the ellipsoid , whatever be the degree of oblateness , fulfils all the conditions requisite for maintaining the equilibrium of a homogeneous fluid mass that revolves about an axis .
If therefore the equation ( A ) were alone sufficient for the equilibrium , the ellipsoid must be deducible from it , not in particular suppositions and approximately , but generally , and by an accurate process of reasoning .
But this has not been accomplished , nor even attempted , by any geometer .
No application has hitherto been made of the hydrostatical theory , except in the case of spheroids little different from spheres .
If a homogeneous fluid of a spherical form at rest , and consequently in equilibrio , begin to revolve about a diameter with a rotatory velocity causing a centrifugal force at the equator , very small in proportion to the gravitation the sphere will acquire a small degree of oblateness at the poles , and the new surface of equilibrium must come : under the equation ( A ) .
Now , from these considerations alone , without any reference to the other condition of equilibrium , it has been proved by LEGENDRE and LAPLACE , that the particles of the fluid will arrange themselves very nearly in an ellipsoid of revolution , the deviation being proportional to the square and higher powers of the oblateness .
But , as the coincidence of the true figure of equilibrium with the ellipsoid is not exact , the result seems to be inconsistent with what M'LAURJN has so ably and elegantly demonstrated to be true .
This argument will acquire greater force , and will even become conclusive , against the theory which makes the equation ( A ) the only condition of the equilibrium , if we consider the oblateness as a finite quantity , and push the approximation so as to take in the square and higher powers : for , by this procedure , we obtain a series of figures in which the ellipsoid is not included .
There is a great analogy between the modern theory of spheroids little different from spheres , and the assumption of NEWTON , who tacitly supposed that the fluid sphere , in the nascent change of its form , will become , either exactly or very nearly , an elliptical spheroid , oblate at the poles .
Both views of the subject leave us in ignorance of the exact form of the surface of equilibrium , although , in the supposed circumstances , it is proved in the one , and assumed in the other , that it is nearly an ellipsoid .
* Mec .
Celeste , Vol. ii , p. io5 , No. 7* .
Thefigures of the earth and of the planets being entirely deduced from the properties of spheroids little different from spheres , it may not be improper to conclude this Paper with a short exposition of a theory that occupies so conspicuous a place in the celestial mechanics , and which is so intimately connected with the subject we have been discussing .
For this purpose resume the expansion of V ( r ) already given in ?
, viz. V ( r ) =fR'fd/ ddJ+ rffR ' .
C(I ) d1 'd ' +P _2+ fLog .
R. C(2 ) dd r3 ? ? ?
?C( 3 ) d'dd _^ rrc(3)d Sdw ri Ifc0^^ a-i24tz i &amp;c. The spheroid being nearly a sphere , we may suppose R to a. ( i + y. ; a being a small coefficient of which the square and other powers are to be neglected ; and y ' a function of the angles that determine the position of R ' .
The expansion supposes that the attracted point is within the spheroid ; but it will apply when the same point is in the surface , in which case , r -R a(+ -a.y ) .
Now , let the values of R and R ' be substituted , and we shall obtain , V(R ) =Jf ( 1i + 2sy')d 'd ' 2a9 ( 1 + ay ) +4 aa ?
.ffyt .
C(') 'd , ' d.d.a a S.ffy ' .
C(2 ) d~ ' di + &amp; ac .
fy ' C13 ) dct d rt + ' &amp; c ; This expression is to be substituted in the equation ( A ) : and it is to be observed thatff dfd v ' =2T ad ; and that X is of the same order with a. Hence we gelt , C= 4 a2 4aay +a .
ffy 'd dV'33+a a.ffy ' .
C( ) d'dz +a2 .
{ .fyy C(:2 ) dP ' d-+ ( 1L ?
) } + a2.ffy .
C(3 ) d r ' d z ' + &amp;c. This is the approximate equation of the surface , when the equation ( A ) is alone taken into account ; and it is to be proved that this equation cannot subsist unless it belong to an elliptical spheroid of revolution .
In the first place , the nature of the function y must depend upon the integrals by which its value is expressed .
But all the integrals are independent of the angles that determine the position of the attracted point in the surface , unless so far as those angles enter into the expressions C ' ) , C( ) , C3 ) , &amp;c. which are all functions of y. Now y is a function of p , V1_k2 Sin. .
, V12 .
Cos. w : and hence it follows , that y and y ' are functions of three rectangular co-ordinates of a point in the surface of a sphere .
In the second place , every function of three rectangular co-ordinates is susceptible of an arrangement , by which it will be converted into a series of the same integrals contained in the foregoing equation .
Let fsl kwe sal hae then , as is well known , we shall have , ,4 y --( +-2 y de 'd t/ , provided we make = 1 , after the integration .
Now for 7 substitute its developement , * and make e= then , 4sy =ffy 'd f ' dd'+ sffy ' .
C( ' ) d 'dr 'd + -ffy ' .
C(2 ) dV d.r + ( Qi +)ffy ' .
C(l)dJVdr ' + &amp;c. This expression is identical when y and y ' are functions of three rectangular co-ordinates .
It is analytically true of every function that can be algebraically transformed into an expression of three rectangular co-ordinates ; and thus it may be said to comprehend every function of two variable angles .
We have now obtained two expressions of y in the same quantities .
But it is easy to prove that the same function can be so expressed only one way .
The two values of y must therefore be identical ; and all the terms that cannot be made to coincide , must be evanescent .
Hence we obtain o =ffy ' .
C(x ) df d'o =ffy ' .
C(3 ) dd'o -ffy ' .
C)d I. ' d &amp;c. from which it is easy to infer that the most general value of y ' is thus expressed , viz. p =A .
2+B ( i -_k2 ) Sin. " 2+C( If ) Cos ' .
It deserves to be remarked , that the equations just found are the very same that result from the second condition of equilibrium , when , for R ' , we substitute a ( i +.y ' ) , and neglect the powers of a. Now , leaving out the evanescent terms , the two foregoing expressions will become , C=:-o a -a2y +-2 " a.ffy ' d ' dz ' 33+ a. { offy ' .
C( ) d 'd ' ( +1 ) } 4y =ffy ' d 'd'+ d 5ffy ' C(2 ) d d. and farther , if we exterminate the integral containing C( from the first , we shall obtain , C =4 ra2 +4 faa y ' dfZd O ' ca l+5.ffy 'd 4 7y -ffy ' dd di +5 fy ' .
C(Z ) d 1d .
The first of these equations proves that y is a function of p only , and that the spheroid sought is one of revolution .
The second is satisfied by putting , Y =f(1- !
, ~2 ) y ' f=/ ( i ) : wherefore , by substituting these values , the first will become , cwi ( n al af ) get( Hence we finally get , w of= 4 of = 41 3 C=4 a2 ( l+eq ) ~Y =oLf ( I -pi ) =5q( I ) a(1i+y)= a { + q ( i-2)S}Such is the method of investigation for which we are indebted to LEGENDRE and LAPLACE in its fundamental principles : for , when all the operations necessary for applying it extensively and readily are fully explained , it becomes a gteat branch of analysis .
The result is no more than an approximation , both on account of the quantities omitted , and because no attention is paid to one of the conditions of equilibrium .
Considering the near approach of all the planets to the spherical form , the method of calculation may be deemed sufficiently accurate for determining the figure of the fluids that cover their surfaces ; but it is not the less necessary to place the physical theory on a clear and sure foundation .
As the subject is usually treated , there is an obscurity , and a want of evidence , arising from the inconsistency between the hydrostatical theory and what is proved by M'LAURIN , which is extremely embarrassing , but which entirely disappears , when we take into account all the physical conditions requisite to maintain the equilibrium of a homogeneous fluid mass that revolves upon an axis .
J. IVORY .
November z , 1823 .
of a homogeneous fluid mass that revolves upon an axis .
By JAMES IVORY , A. M. F R. S. Read December 18 , 1824 .
TH E theory of the figure of the earth , as delivered in the Philosophice JVaturalis Principia Mathematica , is liable to some objections .
In determining the ratio of the axes , the illustrious author assumes that the terrestrial meridian is an ellipse , having the greatest diameter in the plane of the equator .
M'LAuRIN afterwards proved , by a most elegant synthetic process of reasoning , that a homogeneous fluid body , possessed of such a figure as NEWTON supposed , will fulfil all the conditions of equilibrium arising from the attraction of the particles , and a centrifugal force of rotation .
In this manner the assumption of NEWTON was verified ; but the theory was still left imperfect , since it is necessary to determine , by a direct investigation , all the figures of a fluid mass that are consistent with the laws of equilibrium , rather than to show that the same laws will be fulfilled in particular instances .
We are indebted to LEGENDRE for the first demonstration that a homogeneous fluid body , revolving about an axis , cannot be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles , unless it have the figure of an oblate elliptical spheroid .
The researches of LEGENDRE were rendered more general by LAPLACE , who gave a complete theory of the figure of the planets , distinguished by that depth and elegance which is so much admired in all his writings .
It is assumed , however by the eminent geometers we have mentioned , that the figure of the fluid mass is but little different from a sphere which is a restriction not essential to the problem , but introduced for the sake of overcoming some of the difficulties of the investigation .
In the following Paper , the figure of a homogeneous fluid body , that revolves about an axis , and is in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles , is deduced by a direct analysis in which no arbitrary supposition is admitted .
1 .
It is necessary to begin this research , with laying down some general properties of the attractions of bodies ; and we cannot better accomplish this end , than by considering the function , which is the sum of all the molecules of a body divided by their respective distances from the attracted point .
Conceive any material body to be divided into an indefinitely great number of molecules , one of which is represented by dm ; and having drawn three planes intersecting at right angles within the body , let x , y , z , denote the co-ordinates that determine the position of d m , and a , b , c , those that determine the attracted point : then , if we put r V/ a + 624 c2 f= / '(a-x)Y+ ( b-y ) ; + ( C-_Z ) % r will be the distance of the attracted point from the origin of the co-ordinates , and f that of dm from the attracted point .
Now let V ( r ) =f- , the sign of integration , extending to all the molecules of the body ; and V(r ) will be the function alluded to , and which we have to consider .
It need not be mentioned that V ( r ) is not a function of r , but of the three co-ordinates a , b , c ; or it is an abridged symbol denoting a function of r , and the angles which that line makes with the axes of the co-ordinates .
The distinguishing property of the expression V ( r ) is this : if we take its fluxions with respect to the variable quantities a b , c , the differential coefficients d ( r ) , ( -d '^( ) )_(d dV ( r ) will be respectively equal to the accumulated attractions of all the molecules of the body on the attracted point in the directions of a , b , c , and tending to shorten these lines .
Suppose now another body similar to the first in its lineal dimensions , and likewise having the parts similarly situated of the same density .
If , therefore , this second body be divided into the same number of similar molecules as the first body ; every two molecules , dm and dm ' , situated alike , will be of equal density , and their volumes will be proportional to the volume ; of the two whole bodies .
Suppose , also , that z ' , y , z , are three rectangular co-ordinates of the molecule dm ' , drawn to planes situated in the second body , similarly to the like planes in the first ; and farther , let a ' , b/ , c ' , be the co-ordinates of an attracted point , placed in the same relative situation in the second body , as the former attracted point in the first ; then , r iVa/ +ba +cb/ r , _/ a , ~_b , ~q2'ci / '= ?
/( i ' X/ x )t '(( y ) + c ) ( - : z It is manifest from what has been said , that r and r ' , f and f , are homologous lines of the two bodies and hence , r r ' dm din ' f=7 ; -r 7consequently , I dm I dmn rz f= r'3 f ' and as this is universally true of all the molecules , we have , v ( r ) v ( ' ) In this form the expression is inconvenient , because both the quantities become infinite when we suppose that the attracted point is placed in the origin of the co-ordinates .
But the inconvenience is easily removed by substituting , for r and r ' , any other two homologous lines .
Let r and r ' , produced if necessary , meet the surfaces ; and let R and R ' denote the parts within the two bodies , intercepted between the surface and the origin of the co-ordinates : then it is R R ' manifest that R ; and we shall therefore have rrv ( r ) _ V ' ( ) R : RV If , therefore , we suppose a series of such bodies as we have been describing , which increase in magnitude from zero to infinity , while they constantly preserve the same proportions in their lineal dimensions , and the same densities of the parts similarly situated ; the quantity V(r ) will have constantly the same value in all the bodies , supposing that the attracted points are alike placed in them all .
It is manifest , therefore , that R-(r will depend only on what is common to all the bodies in the series ; or it will be a function of the quantities that remain unchanged in passing from one of the bodies to another .
But as these quantities are not the same in all positions of the attracted point , it will be proper to distinguish several cases .
First , let the attracted point be in the surface , in which case r= R : then , , R9 -are the only quantities that constantly retain the same values in all the bodies .
These quantities remain unchanged , because the line r , or R , always makes the same angles with the axes of the co-ordinates .
We therefore have , VI ( R ) a be ) the letter F being the mark of a function .
Hence , V(R ) R'xF .
{ R. } Again , let us put , aa=-r.p ; b=r V/ i-- .
Cos. z ; c= V--lf .
Sin. I ; and , will be the cosine of the angle which the line r , or R , makes with the axis of a ; and z the angle which the projection of the same line upon the plane of b and c makes with the axis of b : then , when r= R , we have , V(R ) = R ' x F. p , 1 ' .
Cos. r , v.Sin./ l Secondly , suppose that the attracted point is placed within each of the bodies ; then the quantities common to them all arbcb are these , viz. - , .
, c Hence , rr rA V ( r ) rabcl -FRr rrJ ' Consequently , V(r)=R -xF , R ' r ' r r ' V ( r ) =Rx F. P{ &gt; , I/ 1Co .
Ca , / i-,2 .
sin..r .
In order to have a more exact notion of this function , we may suppose it to be expanded in a series of the powers of the fraction R : then , RDCXXV NN V(r)R X { pPO + p( ) .
4 P('Z ) + &amp; .
the coefficients pO , p( ' ) , p( ) , &amp;c. being all functions of p , V I(u .
Cos. w , V I1^ .
Sin. a. When the attracted point coincides with the origin of the co-ordinates , the value of V(o ) is equal to P( ) ; and when the same point is in the surface , then = i , and the value of -Ris equal to p(o)+ p(I ) +p(2)+ &amp;c. Finally , let the attracted point be without the surface ; then the quantities common to all the bodies are these , viz. R , v , r.r v()Rabc R---x* - ' ' 7TM T ' ' Consequently , V(r)=R'xF .
{ R aV ( r ) =RI ' x F. { , 1-k CO. / Z. Sin. } In this case , v(-decreases as r increases , and finally vanishes when r is infinite .
The expansion must therefore have this form , viz. V(r ) = R2x Q( ' ) .
+Q 2 ) Q(3):R &amp; Q(1 ) Q(2 ) Q(3 ) , &amp;c. being functions of t , V'/ -i l* ' .
Cos. w , V/ i upt .
Sin. w. When the attracted point is in the surface , = , and the value of V(R ) is equal to Q(I ) -+ Q( ) + Q(3 ) + &amp;c. The preceding reasoning is quite general , and will apply to any material body , whatever be its form .
The body may consist of parts not connected by any mathematical law ; or , which is the same thing , it is not necessary that the equation of its surface be subject to the law of continuity .
e. The co-ordinates of the molecule dm being x , y , , let R ' denote its distance from the origin of the co-ordinates ; and put , x= R ' .
, ' ; y -= R v- , 'l .
Cos. zC ' ; '= Rz ' 1- ' .
Sin. a ' ; then , since we likewise have , a ==-r.z ; b r.s / i --2 .
COS.v P ; cC rc/ ' --.Sin .
- ; and , f= V(a -.x ) + ( b-y)+ ( cz_)2 ; we shall get , y _= , F.'+ l'i .
V'1-4'/ 1 .
Cos. ( v- ' ) , f= r2 r R'.r +.f P It now becomes necessary to expand in a series of the powers of , or of .
Much has already been written on this expansion .
The coefficients have been exhibited in , various forms , and many remarkable properties which they possess have been very diligently explored .
It would not , therefore , be necessary to add any thing upon this subject , unless it be possible to give to the same quantities a new and more simple form of expression , useful in the present investigation .
If we suppose , I 1+C( + ( ) R__ _ _n Rti CC C. f rj p+C(').^ 0.- !
Z.7..+C()+ , .
+ &amp;c. } ; the following differential equation has already been proved in the Philosophical Transactions for 1812 , viz. d. { ( i , 2dCY9 I dSy ( i+ , ) .
C &lt; i)+ oand from this equation the value of C( ) is deduced , viz. c &lt; 'I)-1"3'"- ' [ 5 ' + ) -+ &amp; } 1.2.3 .
2I In the same place another more general differential equation is found , of which the former is only a particular case , viz , dn C(i ) d. ( i ( i--n ) .
( i+ n+ 1 ) ( 1^ ) -dyn + For the sake of abridging I shall now put ( n ) _ , _ V)".dnC ( i ) and , consequently , P( ) =(_ ?
)o d ?
c(_ ) = c( ) d0 d'Y then , if in the foregoing formula , we make n successively equal to o , 1 , , s..i , we shall get this series of equations , viz. ( o ) d. ( )'P + ?
( j+ .
die + 90 + -I .
i a2 dr d.p ( 2 ) ( )+ d..+ i i.-1i.:3 die ( 2 ) d.p 003 ( i-I2 ) + d. --^+r d+ IC(i ) , ::zn +nIdI( _I ),.C 0.,.rrrr .
~~=o

