II .
" Notes of Researches on the Intimate Structure of the Brain."-Third Series .
By J. LOCKHART CLARKE , F.R.S. Received September 1 , 1863 .
Structure of the Valve of Vieussens.-The valve of Vieussens consists of four different kinds of layers .
The most inferior layer is composed of epithelium , which is continuous with that of the fourth ventricle .
The second layer is a stratum of longitudinal nerve-fibres , continuous with the white substance of the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum .
The third layer consists of a multitude of round , granular nuclei of about the 3500th of an inch in diameter , traversed by fibres derived from the subjacent layer .
These nervefibres , in my preparations , may be seen in the most unequivocal manner to divide and subdivide into small branches , to which the nuclei are attached as by stalks .
The fourth or uppermost layer is chiefly granular , but is also interspersed with nuclei of the same kind .
Along its under side , where it joins the preceding layer , is a row of large multipolar cells , which are connected by their processes with the nuclei of both layers* .
Structure of the Cerebral Convolutions .
In the human brain most of the convolutions , when properly examined , may be seen to consist of no less than eight distinct and concentric layers .
This laminated structure is most marked at the end of the posterior lobe .
On cutting off the rounded point of this lobe in the human brain , by a transverse section , at about the distance of an inch , measured along the side of the longitudinal fissure , I found , at this part , that the stratified appearance was very indistinct in the upper and outer convolutions , while it was still clearly observable in the inner and lower convolutions which rest on the cerebellum .
It was most conspicuous in the convolution that lies over the bottom of the posterior notch of the cerebellum , and which runs outward and upward , and then winds inward , to reach the surface at the side of the longitudinal fissure .
In vertical sections of convolutions taken from the end of the posterior lobe , where the laminated structure is most marked , the first or superficial layer is a comparatively thin stratum of fine and closely-packed fibres , intimately connected externally with the pia mater-with which they are very liable to be torn away-while internally they are continuous with fibres radiating from the grey substance .
The second layer is of a pale or whitish colour , and several times the thickness of the one just described .
It consists , first , of fibres running parallel with the surface , both around the convolution and longitudinally ; secondly , of fibres radiating across them from the grey substance beneath , and crossing each other with different degrees of obliquity ; and thirdly , of a small number of scattered nuclei , which are round , oval , fusiform , or angular , and have their longer axes in different directions , but mostly within-outward .
The third layer is of a grey colour , from two to four times as thick as the one above it .
It is densely crowded with cells of small size , but of different shapes , in company with nuclei like those of the preceding layer .
The cells are more or less pyriform , pyramidal , triangular , round and oval , or fusiform .
The pyriform and pyramidal cells-especially in the outer portions of the layer-lie for the most part with their tapering ends toward the surface ; and the oval and fusiform cells have generally their longer axes and their processes in a similar direction .
In the deeper portions of the layer , however , their position is more irregular , many of them lying with their longer axes parallel with the surface , and in connexion with a multitude of fibres which run in the same direction and in great number along the layer .
They contain each a comparatively large granular nucleus , which frequently nearly fills the cell .
Two , three , four , or more processes spring from the broader ends of the pyramidal cells , and run partly toward the central white substance , and partly in the plane of the layer , to be continuous with nerve-fibres in different directions .
The fourth layer is of a much paler colour .
It is crossed , however , at right angles to its plane , by narrow long and vertical groups of small cells and nuclei of the same general appearance as those of the preceding lamina .
These groups are separated from each other by bundles of fibres radiating toward the surface from the central white substance , and , together with them , form a beautiful and fan-like structure .
This layer is distinguishable from the vOL .
XII .
3E one immediately above it by a tolerably sharp outline , but internally it gradually passes into , or blends with , the next one below it , or the fifth lamina .
This fifth layer consists of the same kind of vertical and radiating groups of small cells and nuclei ; but the groups are broader , more regular , and , together with the bundles of fibres between them , present a more distinctly fan-like arrangement .
The sixth layer is again paler , and somewhat whitish , but contains some cells and nuclei which have a general resemblance to those of the preceding layers and are arranged only in a faintly radiating manner .
The seventh layer is of a reddish-grey colour , of about the same depth as the preceding , and contains the same kind of cells and nuclei , but in much greater numbers , and mixed with some others of rather larger size : only here and there they are gathered into the small elongated groups which give the appearance of radiations .
On its under side it gradually blends with the central white layer , into which its cells are scattered for some distance .
Both this and the preceding lamina are traversed by nerve-fibres which run along their planes , or parallel with the surface of the convolution .
The eighth layer is the central white stem or axis of the convolution .
As just stated , it contains , for some distance below its summit , a gradually dirinishing number of scattered cells and nuclei , extending from the lower side of the next upper layer .
The cells are all separate , and disposed with their longer axes at right angles to the curved surface of the convolution , and therefore in the direction of the fibres radiating from the central white stem , with which some , at least , are continuous* .
Course of the Fibres of the Central White Substance through the Convolutions .
From the central white stem bundles of fibres diverge in all directions , in a fan-like manner , toward the surface of the convolutions .
As they pass between the long and vertical groups of cells ( already mentioned ) in the inner grey layers , some of them become continuous with the processes of the cells , and others turn round to become horizontal , both in a transverse and longitudinal direction as regards the convolution , and with different degrees of obliquity .
While the bundles themselves are by this means reduced in size , their component fibres become finer as they approach the surface , in consequence , apparently , of branches which they give off , to be connected with cells in their course .
When they arrive at the outer grey layer , they are reduced to the finest dimensions , and form a close network , with which the nuclei and cells are in connexion* .
Through this layer , however , many of them pass in straight lines , and , in company with processes from some of the cells , traverse the next outer and white layer , in which part of them turn round the circumference of the convolution-part run longitudinally and with various degrees of obliquity , but parallel with the surface , decussating with the former-others appear to form loops by returning to the grey iamina from which they proceed-while the rest continue their vertical course , crossing each other at different angles , and reaching the surface , where they become continuous with the compact and thin stratum of fibres which forms the first layer of the convolution , and is in immediate connexion with the pia matter .
While the bundles of fibres diverge on all sides from the central stem of white substance , another system of fibres , springing from each side of the base of the stem , curve inward and form a beautiful arch over its summit , where they decussate each other , and partly constitute the innermost pale layer .
The fibres of the stem itself are crossed transversely and obliquely by a variable number of others of different diameters ; and in longitudinal sections ( that is , in sections made in the length of the convolutions ) these transverse and oblique fibres are frequently seen to increase in number toward the base of the white substance , where they decussate each other at every possible angle .
Such is the structure of the convolutions at the extremity of the posterior lobe , in which the laminated appearance is most marked .
In almost all other convolutions , however , eight laminae , although sometimes indistinct , may be brought into view by means of solution of potash or soda .
Sometimes , as in certain parts of the posterior lobe itself , one can scarcely make out more than seven layers , there being only one broad layer of arciform fibres running along the grey layer outside the white central stem .
It is an error to call the layers containing these arciform fibres ( for I shall so name them ) the white layers of the convolution , for they are always interspersed with numerous cells , with processes of which they are continuous .
In some parts of the brain ( on the vertex for instance ) the second ( from the centre ) of the arciform bands of fibres is very broad and strong , and thickly interspersed with large and small cells of different shapes .
These arciform fibres of the convolutions run in different planes , transversely , obliquely , and longitudinally .
Where a convolution bends round upon itself at a right angle , a section made at the angle contains them in abundance ; but here the separate fibres forming the arciform bands are very short , being cut in their passage .
The curved arciform fibres , then , establish an infinite number of communications in all directions between different parts of each convolution , between different convolutions , and between these and the central white substance .
I have already shown that the more superficial layer of grey substance contains numerous arciform fibres , but finer and less strongly marked .
But the convolutions at the extremity of the posterior lobe differ from the rest , not only in the greater distinctness of their several laminae , but also in the appearance of some of their cells .
On advancing forward , the convolutions contain a great number of cells of a much larger kind .
In a section , for instance , taken from a convolution at the vertex , and in a vertical line passing through the optic thalamus , the greater number of the cells differ but little from those at the extremity of the posterior lobe ; but amongst these cells , in the two inner bands of arciform fibres , and the grey layer between them , I found a number of much larger , triangular , oval , and pyramidal cells scattered about at variable intervals .
' The pyramidal cells ' are very peculiar .
Their bases are quadrangular , directed toward the central white substance , and give off four or more processes , which run partly toward the centre to be continuous with fibres radiating from the central stem , and partly parallel with the surface of the convolution , to be continuous with arciform fibres .
The processes may frequently be seen to subdivide into minute bralches which form part of the intervening network , as I have described on former occasions .
The opposite end of each pyramidal cell tapers gradually into a straight process which runs directly towards the surface of the convolution , and may be traced to a surprising distance , giving off minute branches in its course , and becoming lost in the surrounding network .
Many of these cells , as well as those of a triangular , oval , and pyriform shape , are as large as those of the anterior grey substance of the spinal cord .
In other convolutions I again found the vesicular structure somewhat modified .
In the surface convolution , for instance , at the side of the longitudinal fissure , on a level with the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum , all the three inner laminse are thronged with pyramidal , triangular , and oval cells , of considerable size , and in much greater number than in the situation last mentioned .
Between these , as usual , is a multitude of the smaller cells .
The cells of the convolutions in man certainly differ in some respects from those of the larger mammalia-from those , for instance , of the ox , sheep , and cat .
In the early foetal brain of mammalia and man the structure consists of one uninterrupted nucleated network .
As development advances , separate layers may be distinguished .
In a foetal sheep 2 ?
inches long , for instance , I distinguished six layers in a transverse section of the brain , extending from the vertex to the interior of the lateral ventricle .
The first , second , and third corresponded to those which I have described in the convolutions of the adult human brain , and still consisted of roundish nuclei connected by a network of fibres .
The third of these layers consisted chiefly of a dark and dense stratum of nuclei , exactly similar to that which the caput cornu posterioris of the spinal cord presents at the same period of development .
The fourth layer consisted chiefly of elongated and radiating groups of nuclei .
The fifth layer was dark , containing nuclei and a dense stratum of transverse fibres .
The sixth layer was composed of epithelium , uninterruptedly connected with the network of the preceding layers , and having precisely the same appearance as the epithelium of the cord at the same period of development .
On the Structure of the Cerebellum.-The observations of Gerlach on the minute structure of the cerebellum are in the main confirmed by my own .
I must state , however , that the outer grey layer con sists of an exceedingly fine network of fibres interspersed and connected with nuclei .
This network is partly formed by the minute ramifications of the processes which proceed from the large nucleated cells along its inner border , and which completely reach the surface , communicating with each other in their course .
In my preparations this arrangement is very distinctly seen .
The facts contained in these notes will be illustrated , as soon as possible , by appropriate drawings .

