XXVI .
" Researches on the Intimate Structure of the Brain ; Human and Comparative.-Part I. The Medulla oblongata .
" By J. LOCKHART CLARKE , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The medulla oblongata , as described in this memoir , extends from the first cervical nerve to the lower border of the pons Varolii .
Of its elementary parts , the author first traces the arciformfibres , which may be divided into a superficial and a deep layer .
Those of the superficial layer may in turn be divided into three sets .
The connexions of these are first followed out in detail ; the fibres of the deep layer are described further on .
In all mammalia these fibres are very distinct , but less intricate than in man .
They may be found also in birds , reptiles , and fishes .
The anterior pyramids are found to be composed offour orders of fibres:1 .
Decussatingfibres from the lateral columns , forming their chief bulk .
2 .
Decussating fibres from the posterior columns and posterior grey substance , chiefly at the upper part .
3 .
Decussating fibres from the anterior grey substance .
4 .
Non-decussating fibres of the anterior columns , separate on their outer side , and on their inner side incorporated with those which form the decussation .
In mammalia generally the decussating fibres are much less numerous than in man .
In birds there is an evident but feeble decussation .
Of the corpora olivaria it is remarked , that they are to be found not only in all mammalia , but also to a certain extent in birds .
In man , the surface of each olivary body consists of two layers of fibres -transverse and longitudinal ; the former in part belong to the arciform system , the latter are continuous with the antero-lateral column .
A broad transverse commissure unites the two bodies .
The corpus dentatum is a convoluted vesicular sac , consisting of nucleated cells of small and rather uniform size , from 31j--th to -il-6th of an inch in diameter , but varying in shape , and many of them sending out processes-some one , others two , three or more .
The connexion of the fibres with the convolutions of the sac is extremely complicated , and not to be made intelligible without the aid of diagrams .
It may be stated , however , that the fibres which are confined to the cavity of the sac , with some others , take their origin from the cells .
In mammalia generally the olivary bodies are nearly concealed behind the pyramids , and vary in their appearance at the surface in different animals .
The vesicular sac , or corpus dentatum , is thrown into only a few comparatively large convolutions .
On the outer side of each olivary body , and separated from it by a groove which lodges the hypoglossal nerve , is another vesicular column , not hitherto described by anatomists , and of which the analogue is found in the human medulla .
As the fibres of the lateral columns cross over to the anterior pyramids , the posterior cornua sink as it were forwards , while their terminal tufts the gelatinous substance , gradually increasing in bulk , reach the surface , and form the grey tubercles of Rolando .
At the same time , and close to the posterior median fissure , the grey substance is raised into a small conical projection , from which a network of blood-vessels and fibres extends backwards into the posterior pyramid .
Within the projection , and amongst the network , cells are developed , which are circular , pyriform , or irregular in shape , and give off one process or several .
Further outwards , another , but larger projection and another network extend backwards into the restiform body , containing cells of the same character , but of superior size .
These additional productions may be called respectively the post-pyramidal and restiform ganglia .
As the medulla ascends , the root of the posterior cornu and the whole of the anterior cornu are gradually resolved or spread out into a beautiful and complicated network , containing a multitude of variously-shaped cells , which communicate and surround with their processes the longitudinal bundles of the white columns enclosed in the meshes .
The post-pyramidal and restiform ganglia continue to increase in size , as do also the terminal tufts of the posterior cornua , which , like the former , are traversed by an extension of the network , and interspersed with cells .
At the lower extremity of the olivary bodies , the decussation of the anterior pyramids , although still considerable , is very much reduced ; for while its fibres derived from the lateral columns have been gradually decreasing in number , those which proceed from the posterior columns and posterior grey substance have been increasing , though not in the same proportion .
These latter fibres may be traced backwards from the decussation chiefly to the restiform body and its ganglion , in which they wander in various 'directions , crossing each other , and becoming longitudinal .
In front , and at the side of the central canal , a new group or column of cells begins to make its appearance , the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve ; and behind and on each side of the canal appears the nucleus of the spinal-accessory nerve , which is connected with its fellow of the opposite side , at the bottom of the posterior fissure , by a transverse band of fibres , the continuation of the posterior commissure of the medulla spinalis .
Of the spinal-accessory nerve , some of the upper roots proceed to their own nucleus , while others bend forwards into the hypoglossal nucleus , and in part join its fibres , to decussate through the raphl with those of the opposite nerve .
The vagus nerve arises from a continuation of the spinalaccessory nucleus , and , on its way outwards , passes through the terminal tufts of the posterior cornu , or the so-called gelatinous substance .
The vagal and spinal-accessory vesicular nuclei or columns , after appearing in the fourth ventricle , and diverging so as to expose the hypoglossal nucleus , sink abruptly beneath a new mass of vesicular substance which makes its appearance on each side of the ventricle .
This is the auditory ganglion .
It commences by a point on the outer side of the vagal nucleus , with which it is intimately connected , and is developed from the inner part of the post-pyramidal ganglion .
Its cells are various in shape , and as they are developed from the inner part of the posterior pyramid , the outer side of the latter undergoes a remarkable change of structure , and becomes the chief origin of the anterior division of the auditory nerve , which in its course outwards runs between the restiform body and the gelatinous substance or posterior cornu .
The posterior division of the nerve winds transversely inwards over the restiform body to reach the auditory ganglion .
Intimately connected with the auditory nerves and ganglia is thestructure which , in animals , is called the trapezium , and which the author has found to enclose a remarkable vesicular sac resembling that of the olivary bodies .
The analogue of the trapezium exists in the human medulla .
The facial nerve , or portio dura of the seventh , after passing through the trapezium , proceeds transversely inwards to the fasciculus teres , which contains a mass or column of stellate cells , and through which it spreads , exchanging fibres or forming a loop with the sixth or abducens nerve , which arises from the same nucleus .
The glossopharyngeal nerve has more than one origin .
It passes out in several bundles through the gelatinous substance or posterior cornu , in which it forms a plexus with longitudinal fasciculi of fibres which may be traced upwards to the larger root of the fifth nerve .
The connecting fibres between the anterior and posterior portions of the medulla are very numerous and complicated .
For convenience of description , they may be divided into two parts , -superficial and deep .
The superficial are the superior layers of the arciform system , and arise from the restiform body and its ganglion : the deep fibres , more or less blended with the first , arise from the remains of the post-pyramidal and the restiform ganglia .
Together they form a complicated network , or plexus , interspersed with innumerable and variously shaped cells , which frequently communicate around the longitudinal bundles of the lateral columns , through which and the olivary body the fibres of the plexus proceed forwards and inwards to the raphe , where they decussate with those of the opposite side , and become continuous with the arciform fibres which were traced to the raphe round the anterior pyramids as the superficial set .
The raphe , therefore , is the seat of a very complicated decussation between the posterior halves of the medulla , on the one hand ; and on the other , between each of these and the olivary body of the opposite side .
The memoir contains the details of other observations on the medulla of man and the lower animals .

