XXI .
" Further Researches on the Grey Substance of the Spinal Cord .
" By J. LOCKHABT CLARKE , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication it is proposed , for reasons assigned , to divide each lateral half of the posterior grey substance into two portions:-1 .
The caput cornus posterioris ; 2 , the cervix cornis posterioris .
The caput consists of the broad or expanded extremity of the cornu , and is separated from the cervix by an imaginary line drawn across from the opposite anterior extremities of the gelatinous substance ; the cervix comprises the remaining anterior portion of the cornu .
The caput cornus consists of two different portions:-1 .
an outer and comparatively transparent portion , the gelatinous substance ; 2 .
an inner and more opaque portion , or base .
1 .
The outer portion or gelatinous substance consists of , A. Nerve-fibres , transverse , longitudinal , and oblique .
B. Nerve-cells , large , small , and intermediate .
C. Blood-vessels , and connective tissue , with numerous nuclei .
2 .
The inner or more opaque portion of the caput cornuZs is continuous with the grey substance of the cervix , and surrounded behind and on each side by the gelatinous substance , with which it varies in shape at different regions of the cord .
In addition to blood-vessels and connective tissue , it consists of , A. Nerve-fibres , transverse , longitudinal , and oblique .
B. Nerve-cells , both large and small .
A. The longitudinal fibres form bundles of various sizes , and are broader and coarser than those of the gelatinous substance , which , however , they immediately adjoin .
The transverse and oblique fibres are continuous with the posterior roots of the nerves , and partly with the longitudinal fibres , which they also cross in a great variety of ways .
About the middle of the dorsal region , in the spinal cord of the higher vertebrata , the posterior cornua are united in a single mass .
The inner or median half of each cervix cornus is occupied by a remarkable longitudinal column , which is cylindrical or oval , the posterior vesicular column .
This consists of a cylinder of fibres interspersed with and surrounded by cells and thin processes .
The fibres are derived from the posterior roots of the nerves , and interlace with each other in an intricate manner .
The cells are oval , fusiform , and variously stellate , and differ considerably in size , but the largest are equal to those of the anterior cornu .
They are elongated with thin processes transversely , longitudinally , and obliquely , and are continuous with fibres in the same direction , including the posterior roots .
At the lateral border of the grey substance , between the anterior and posterior cornua , is a small and somewhat triangular tract , which is more transparent than the rest , and projects more or less into the lateral column .
This tract , which was pointed out by the author in 1851 , and is named the tractus intermedio-lateralis , consists of oval , fusiform , and triangular cells , which are smaller and of more uniform size than those of the surrounding substance .
Some of them are elongated transversely and longitudinally , -transversely both in a lateral and antero-posterior direction , and send their processes on the one hand to the transverse commissure , and on the other to the anterior and posterior cornua .
In receding from the dorsal to the cervical region , the central portion or cylinder of each posterior vesicular column is reduced in size and less completely circumscribed .
In the middle of the cervical enlargement it entirely disappears , but the whole inner half of the cervix cornis is still interspersed with numerous cells of various shapes , and traversed by the posterior roots and the fibres of the transverse commissure .
At the origin of the third pair of cervical nerves , a darker mass reappears in the same situation , but gradually diminishes as it ascends to the medulla oblongata .
The tractus intermedio-lateralis is larger in the upper part than in the middle of the dorsal region , and projects further into the lateral column .
As it ascends , however , through the cervical enlargement , it gradually diminishes , and at length disappears ; but the lateral portion of the grey substance contains numerous branched and elongated cells , amongst which are a few that resemble those of the tractus intermedio-lateralis ; it is traversed by the anterior and posterior roots , and by the lowest roots of the spinal-accessory nerve on their way to the anterior cornu .
In the region of the first pair of cervical nerves , a distinct vesicular tract reappears at the lateral part of the grey substance .
It is traversed by the roots of the spinalaccessory nerves , and partly by those of the spinal nerves .
Its cells are elongated transversely and longitudinally .
Ascending the medulla oblongata , this vesicular tract makes its way inwards to the space behind the central canal , where it forms the nucleus of the upper roots of the spinal-accessory nerve .
In descending the cord from the dorsal region , the grey substance undergoes a series of changes nearly similar to those which are observed in ascending to the cervical enlargement .
But in the upper part of the lumbar enlargement , the posterior vesicular columns are much larger than in any other region of the cord , and contain more large cells .
Through the rest of the lumbar enlargement the number of large cells diminishes ; but they are still traversed and surrounded by the posterior roots of the nerves , and by the transverse commissure .
In the spinal cord of Man , the form of the grey substance differs in some respects from that in Mammalia .
Throughout the whole of the dorsal region the posterior cornua stand completely apart .
The posterior vesicular columns are oval , but in structure resemble those in the Ox. In the middle of the cervical and lumbar enlargements , their cells , in connexion with the posterior roots , are very small , but nnmerous , The tractus intermedio-lateralis in Man presents nearly the same appearance as in Mammalia , and contains the same kind of cells .
In the lumbar region it is still prominent at the side of the grey substance , but its cells are less numerous than in the dorsal region .
In the upper part of the cervical region a similar tract reappears , which is traversed by the roots of the spinal accessory , and those of the spinal nerves .
In Birds , as in MIammalia , the posterior cornua are united in a single mass , both in the dorsal region and lower part of the conus medullaris ; and the gelatinous substance extends uninterruptedly across from side to side .
There are no dark masses corresponding to those of the posterior vesicular columns of mammalia , although numerous cells are scattered through the same space .
There are no traces of any distinct tractus intermedio-lateralis .
In Reptiles it is only in the conus medullaris that the posterior cornua form a single mass .
A distinct stratum of small fusiform cells , in connexion with the fibres of the posterior roots , extends diagonally from the point of each cornu to the transverse commissure .
In the Ox and Sheep the epithelium of the canal consists , not of cylindrical , but of fusiform cells arranged in close apposition .
The fibres proceeding from them are precisely similar in appearance to those of the connective tissue which surrounds the cord , and , like those fibres , they are in connexion at intervals with minute nuclei ; in the filum terainale the author has satisfactorily traced them through the grey substance to the surface of the cord .
In the filum terminale , where the nerve-cells and nerve-roots entirely disappear , the canal , and consequently the nuniber of epithelium-cells , are much greater than in the cervical or lumbar enlargement , where the nervecells and nerve-roots are abundant .
These facts are opposed to the statements of those observers who profess to have traced their connexion with nerve-cells and nerve-fibres .
The white columns of the cord are traversed by a network of connective tissue , which abounds with nuclei and small cells precisely similar to those found in the grey substance .
In the conus medullaris , the author has distinctly seen some of the anterior roots of the nerves form loops around the group of stellate cells , instead of terminating in them .

