Researches into the Structure of the Spinal Chord* .
By J. LOCKHART CLARKE , Esq. Communicated by SAMUEL SOLLY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received October 15 , -Read December 5 , 1850 .
BY reflecting on certain facts connected with the respiratory movements , and which seem to derive no explanation from our actual knowledge of the structure of the spinal chord , I was induced to undertake a series of observations with the view of determining , if possible , the relations which appear to subsist between the spinal nerves and the respiratory nervous centres .
These observations , however , led me into a more extended inquiry than I at first contemplated , the results of which I now venture to lay before the Royal Society .
It is needless to point out the difficulties which attend , not only the minute investigation , but a clear and connected description , of a structure so intricate and delicate as that of the spinal chord .
It may be proper however to state , with regard to the contents of this paper , that those facts only which were verified by cautious and repeated examination have been brought forward with confidence ; while in cases where the results of my observations were less satisfactory , I have expressed myself with corresponding reserve .
Yet , no labour has been spared in order to arrive at correct conclusions .
My observations were made , by means of one of Mr. Ross 's finest microscopes , on many thousand preparations of the spinal chord of Man , of the Calf , Sheep , Pig , Dog , Cat , Rabbit , Guinea Pig and Frog , and occupied a period of more than two years .
In making these preparations , the two following methods were adopted:-a perfectly fresh chord was hardened in spirits of wine , so that extremely thin sections , in various directions , could be made by means of a very sharp knife .
A section so made was placed on a glass slide and treated with a mixture composed of one part of acetic acid and three of spirits of wine , which not only makes the nerves and fibrous portion more distinct and conspicuous , but renders also the grey substance much more transparent .
The section was then covered with thin glass , and viewed , first by reflected light with low magnifying powers , and then by transmitted light with higher ones .
According to the second method , the section is first macerated for an hour or two in the mixture of acetic acid and spirit .
It is then removed into pure spirit , and allowed to remain there for about the same space of time .
From the spirit it is transferred to oil of turpentine , which expels the spirit in the form of opake globules , and shortly ( sometimes immediately ) renders the section perfectly transparent .
The preparation is then put up in Canada balsam and covered with thin glass .
By this means the nerve-fibrils and vesicles become so beautifully distinct that they may be clearly seen with the highest powers of the micoscope .
If the section be removed from the turpentine when it is only semi-transparent , we sometimes obtain a good view of the arrangement of the blood-vessels* .
All the observations described in this paper were made and verified also on sections in a perfectly fresh state and unaffected by any chemical re-agent and whenever it was proposed to examine the natural structure of any particular part , as the nerves and vesicles , a specimen was selected from an animal immediately after death .
The drawings have been executed by myself with the greatest care , and may be relied on as faithful and exact delineations of what was seen under the microscope .
The outlines of all were taken by means of a camera lucida , in order to ensure correctness .
Of the Grey Substance of the Spinal Chord .
At the lower end of the spinal chord the posterior grey substance consists only of a single mass , having a broad and rounded extremity , and formed , as we shall presently see , by the coalescence of the two posterior cornua along their inner borders , where , being increased in breadth , they meet each other in the middle line ( see Plate XX .
fig. 1 ) .
In consequence of this arrangement , the substantia gelatinosa extends uninterruptedly and horizontally across from one side to the other .
From the posterior white columns it is separated , particularly on each side , by a kind of border composed of fine nerve-tubes , which wind round it and proceed from the posterior roots of the nerves .
The anterior grey substance , on the other hand , is here , as in other regions of the chord , separated by the anterior white columns into two cornua of considetrable size .
These curve somewhat inwards , taper to an irregularly rounded point , and nearly reach the circumference of the chord .
Here also the spinal canal is very distinct and large , being the --oth part of an inch in diameter .
It is situated much nearer the anterior than the posterior surface of the chord* .
The nerve-vesicles however are few in number , and scattered irregularly through the grey substance .
They are not , as in some other regions , collected into large masses , but are most numerous in the anterior cornua , at the extremities of which three or four may be seen closely grouped together .
Nature and Arrangement of the Nerve-fibres in the Grey Substance of the Spinal Chord .
The nerve-fibres in the grey substance of the spinal chord are mostly of the white tubular kind , and of variable but small average diametert .
With regard to direction , they may be divided into two classes , -transverse and longitudinal .
Transverse Fibres.--These again may be divided into two orders , -antero-posterior and latero-transverse .
Antero-posterior Fibres.-On each side of the middle line , in the posterior grey substance , are several large bundles of fine nerve-tubes , which take a transverse direction from behind forwards ( see Plate XX .
fig. 1 ) .
These bundles may be traced through the posterior white columns , partly into the roots of nerves which arise in the same vertical ( in Man , horizontal ) plane , and partly into others above and below them .
They are convex towards the middle line , but on approaching the anterior cornua , they break up into smaller bundles , which interlace with each other and form a coarse network , in the meshes of which the nerve-vesicles are contained .
Many of these nerve-tubes , both singly and in bundles , extend outwards into the antero-lateral white columns+ .
Many of them , also , appear to be continuous with the anterior roots of the nerves ; but whether they be so or not , the anterior and posterior roots are mingled together in the network above mentioned ? .
Between the spinal canal and the anterior median fissure , some of these fibres cross obliquely through the anterior white columns , and decussate with corresponding fibres from the opposite side ( see Plate XX .
figs. 1 , 3 , &amp;c. ) .
Latero-transverse Fibres.-The second order of transverse fibres take a more or less horizontal direction between the opposite sides of the grey substance , forming the transverse commissure , and are arranged chiefly in loose bundles ( see figs. 2 and 3 ) .
Those behind the spinal canal diverge on each side into the anterior and posterior grey masses , and extend into both the posterior and lateral white columns ; a great number being evidently continuous with both the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves .
One large bundle , in the centre , is particularly conspicuous ( see figs. 2 and 3 ) .
Those in front of the spinal canal are much less numerous and curve principally forwards : they may be traced partly into the antero-lateral columns , and partly into the anterior roots of the nerves .
By Dr. STILLING some of the fibres of the posterior nerves are said to cross over , behind the spinal canal , into the anterior cornua of the opposite side .
I have many times thought that such an arrangement really exists , but the inquiry is attended with great difficulty , and my own observations , though frequently repeated , are too uncertain in their results to admit of my confirming or denying the existence of these fibres .
HANOVER denies that there is any crossing of the fibres in the spinal chord .
He says , " Un party des fibres pass bien d'un c6t6 de la moelle 6piniBre a rautre , mais un entre-croisement general n'a pas lieu* .
" Longitudinal Fibres.-The fibres of the substantia gelatinosa are , as usually defibres , presenting dark , single , and sharply-defined outlines , with frequent varicosities ; but when stretched , or otherwise injured by manipulation , they lose their dark borders , and become exceedingly pale and delicatet .
They vary but little in size , but are all extremely slender , their average diameter not exceeding the 1,1 th of an inch : some few are larger , but I have seen numbers as small as the 5-th or mi 0th of an inch in diameter , as shown by the micrometer .
They are usually distinguished as grey fibres , but differ in many respects from the grey fibres contained in the sympathetic system of nerves ; for they are not only , on an average , finer , but , like the tubular fibres , are little or not at all affected by acetic acid , which fails to bring out any traces of nuclei+ .
They have also been said to resemble the processes of the his own words " Die Primitivfasemrn der Nervenwurzeln nichts Anderes sind als die unmittelbaren Fortsatze der queerlanfenden graven Substanz des Riickenmarks " ( T.extur des Riickenmarks , p. 28 ) .
The transverse fibres , however , are really white tubules of smaller diameter than those which form the roots of the nerves .
caudate vesicles , but in their natural state they certainly bear no resemblance to them whatever .
Around the extremity of the spongy portion of the posterior cornua , these longitudinal fibres are collected into an arched and very dense band , of the same form , and about the same thickness as the substantia gelatinosa , with the lower border of which it is continuous .
This band may be seen even with the naked eye , and then appeals as a white opake stripe .
The longitudinal fibres are also found , but in smaller numbers , through the rest of the grey substance .
Changes in the Form of the Grey Substance .
On examining the chord upwards towards the lumbar enlargement , certain modifications are found to take place in the form and disposition of the grey masses .
The two halves of the posterior mass , with its two sets of antero-posterior bundles of tubular nerve-fibres , begin to separate from each other at the middle line ( see figs. 2 and 3 ) .
Here the substantia gelatinosa is first interrupted , and the posterior bordei ' of the grey substance between its divided central extremities , or rather , the posterior fibres of the transverse commissure , begin to arch forwards towards the spinal canal , and to mark out the rudiments of the posterior cornua .
At the same time , on each side , and a little behind , the spinal canal , a small but gradually increasing mass of caudate vesicles makes its appearance .
These are the commencement of two longitudinal columns of vesicular substance , which extend through the whole length of the spinal chord , and which I name the posterior vesicular columns .
They are traversed and surrounded by fibres from the posterior roots of the nerves , and also by arched fibres of the posterior transverse commnissure , some of which , as already stated , are continuous with the anterior roots of the nerves .
The changes just described continue to increase from below upwards , and reach their greatest extent in the middle of the lumbar enlargement , where the posterior cornua are broad and long , and widely separated from each other by the posterior white columns of the chord ; while the space between the posterior border of the transverse commissure and the spinal canal , and which is almost entirely occupied by the former structure is much reduced in breadth , for it measures only the 2 th of an inch , whereas at the lower extremity of the chord its diameter reaches the -1th of an inch ( see Plates XX .
and XXI .
figs. 1 and 6 ) .
At this central constricted portion , therefore , of the transverse commissure , its fibres , which before were but loosely arranged , are now compressed into a dense band , but still diverge on each side into the anterior and posteriom cornua .
In consequence of these changes , also , the two posterior vesicular columns which have increased considerably in size , and were formerly situated behind , anc at the sides of , the spinal canal , are now pushed up , as it were , and included in th( presenting a very small diameter and a bright golden colour ; but add , that they are not easily examined wit ] accuracy .
Repeated and careful examination , however , has convinced me that the above description is correct their golden colour , when seen by transmitted light , is due only to the granular matrix in which they lie ; whei viewed by direct light , they have an opake white appearance .
611 posterior cornua , some of their vesicles reaching as high as the substantia gelatinosa .
As a further result of the same changes , the posterior white columns are much deeper and broader here than in the lower regions of the chord ( compare Plates XX .
and XXI .
figs. 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 ) .
While the posterior masses of the grey substance are undergoing the modifications just desclibed , a series of somewhat similar alterations are found to take place in the form and arrangement of the anterior masses .
In the middle of the lumbar enlargement , the anterior cornua have increased to a still greater extent than the posterior , and have assumed a shape the opposite of that which they possessed lower down in the chord .
They now turn rather outwards instead of inwards , and have a large , irregularly club-shaped , instead of a pointed , extremity .
The caudate vesicles have beconme exceedingly numerous , and are grouped together in several large masses , which are situated chiefly on the outer and middle parts of the cornua ( fig. 6 ) .
They lie in the meshes of a net-work formed by bundles of fibres proceeding from the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves , and from the commissural bands behind the spinal canal* .
On proceeding upwards from the lumbar enlargement into the dorsal region of the chord , arrangements in the grey substance are observed to take place in the reverse order of those already described .
By degrees the posterior cornua are reduced in length , and somewhat modified in shape ; their inner sides extend towards each other and the middle line , while the posterior bands of the transverse commissure are drawn , as it were , gradually backwards , becoming at the same time less curved ; so that the space between them and the spinal canal is now correspondingly increased .
Into this space the two posterior vesicular columrns advance between the fibres of the transverse commissure , together with the inner sides of the posterior cornua , which , in the middle of the dorsal region , coalesce and enclose them behind .
( Compare Plates XXII .
and XXIII .
figs. 7 , 8 , 9 and 10 .
) .
Here , then , the posterior grey substance again consists only of a single mass , and again , also , the stubstantia gelatinosa extends uninterruptedly and nearly horizontally across from side to side .
On the other hand , the anterior cornua are long , straight and narrow , and project almost directly forwards .
The caudate vesicles , reduced considerably in number , are scattered irregularly through them , but are more numerous towards their extremities , where they are sometimes seen in the form of one or two small groups .
From the middle of the dorsal region to the cervical enlargement of the chord , the alterations in the form of the grey substance are once more reversed , being nearly similar to those which are found to take place on proceeding upwards from its lower extremity .
The posterior mass renews the process of division into two parts , commencing with the substantia gelatinosa at the middle line , where the transverse com* It is interesting , in a physiological point of view , to find that the number of caudate vesicles is in direct proportion to the size of the nerves , which are known to be much larger at the lumbar and cervical enlargements than in other regions .
612 missural bands are gradually pressed , as it were , forwards , and thus mark out the posterior cornua ; while in these , which again reach their greatest size in the middle of the cervical enlargement , the posterior vesicular columns , formerly situated behind , and at the sides of the spinal canal , at length resume their position and increased dimensions ( see fig. 11 ) .
During the progress of these changes , the anterior cornua also undergo considerable modifications .
They become gradually broader and longer , and contain a much larger number of vesicles , which in the cervical enlargement are grouped together , as in the lumbar region , into several large masses ; indeed , the general arrangements of the grey substance at these two parts of the chord have a very striking resemblance* .
At the outer border of the grey substance , between the anterior and posterior cornua , is a small column of vesicular matter , which is softer and more transparent than the rest .
This consists of caudate vesicles of inferior size and more regular shape than those usually found in the spinal chord .
It is seen distinctly at the upper part of the lumbar enlargement ( see Plates XXII .
and XXIII .
figs. 7 and 8 m ) , and increases somewhat in size in the dorsal region , where it projects slightly into the lateral column on each side .
In the cervical enlargement it is less distinctly marked , but higher up it again becomes conspicuous , and is there seen to form the principal part of the nucleus of the spinal-accessory nerve ( see fig. 12 ) .
On ascending the medulla oblongata , this column of vesicles gradually makes its way inwards till it reaches the space immediately behind the spinal canal , where it meets and blends with its fellow of the opposite- .
In the upper part of the cervical region the posterior cornua are long and narrow .
The outer part of each , below the substantia gelatinosa , consists of a large and remarkably beautiful network of blood-vessels , which encloses in its meshes bundles of fibres of the lateral columns ( see Plate XXIV .
fig. 12 ) .
These bundles are of various sizes , and encroach , gradually upon the cornua as they ascend to the medulla oblongata .
Some of the fibres of the spinal-accessory nerve run transversely through this network ; but a considerable branch , on entering the grey substance , bends forwards , and after passing through its vesicular nucleus , continues the same course within the anterior cornu , where its fibres traverse and surround the caudate vesicles , in company with the roots of the anterior spinal nerves ( see Plate XXV .
fig. 13 ) .
The space behind the spinal canal has slightly increased in breadth , and the posterior vesicular columns on each side of it have nearly the same position and relations as in the dorsal region .
The anterior cornua are rather small and pointed , and contain each a circular or oval mass of vesicles .
The central portion of the grey substance surrounding the spinal canal is described by FOVILLE* as the grey comrissure of the chord ; and by STILLINGt as a circular commissure composed of exceedingly delicate grey nerve-fibres .
To me , however , its structure appears to consist of a circular layer of extremely fine fibrous tissue ( for supporting the sides of the canal ) , left unobscured by the transverse commissural fibres which arch round it in front and behind .
Indeed , it may be seen , at some parts of the chord , to be continuous with the areolar tissue which extends from the borders of the anterior fissure , through the white columns , in front of the canal .
It varies , also , in shape at different parts of the chord , being fusiforin from side to side in the higher regions , where the curves described by the anterior and posterior transverse cornmissures are least ; and nearly circular in the lower regions , where those curves are greatest .
The walls of the spinal canal are lined with a layer of columnar epitheliunm , which in a transverse section of the chord , viewed by direct light , appears as a white opake ring at the margin of the forament .
Of the Nerve-vesicles of the Spinal Chord .
The vesicles found in the grey substance of the spinal chord are either circular , oval , pyriform , or otherwise irregular in shape and all of them , except those peculiar to the substantia gelatnosa , have remarkably delicate processes issuing from their sides , like the neck from a flask or funnel ( see Plate XXV .
fig. 15 ) .
They are found chiefly in the anterior cornua and in the posterior vesicular columns .
They are also connected with each other by their processes , which divide and subdivide into smaller branches , so that the space between them appears to be occupied by a minute network of the most delicate fibrils ll .
Many of these processes , particularly from vesicles situated near the border of the grey substance , run out into the white columns through fissures which contain blood-vessels and pia matter .
Whether they give off branches which follow the vascular network through the white columns , I have not been able to determine .
That the caudate vesicles have some important relation to the functions of the nerves , there is every reason to believe , since we find that they not only invariably exist n the vicinity of nerves , but , as already shown , that they increase also in number in direct proportion to the size of the nerves with which they are associated .
I am aware that several continental physiologists of eminence assert that they have discovered in the lower vertebrata and in the invertebrata a direct union between the caudate vesicles and the tubular fibrles ; but I have never been able to make out satisfactorily any such connection in the spinal chord of mammalia , although I have constantly sought for it under very favourable circumstances* .
The nerve-fibrils wind around , and apparently in contact with , the vesicles , but the connection does not seem to have at all the character of an attachment .
Nor have I succeeded in tracing anything like continuity between the tubular fibres and the processes of the vesicles .
It is very common to see one or two of these processes running outwards into a bundle of nerves attached either to the anterior or posterior cornua ; but then we have seen that they pass out into the white columns from all sides , and therefore from parts which are not connected with nerves .
Blood-vessels of the Spinal Chord.-lThese enter through the anterior and posterior median fissures , through the smaller fissures in the white columns , and at the roots of the nerves .
After giving off numerous branches to the white columns , they proceed inwards to the grey substance , along the whole periphery of which they form a remarkably beautiful network of loopsf , intermixed with nerve-tubes and some of the processes of the vesicles .
Within the grey substance they form an extremely minute network .
Some of the vessels which enter at the anterior and posterior fissures and at the posterior white coltumns , anastomose with each other around the spinal canal ; while others branch off , right and left , between the bundles of the transverse commissure , into the anterior and posterior cornua , where they follow the course of the transverse fibres , and running to the periphery of the grey substance , assist in forming there the loops already described .
A series of loops is also found to exist near the extremity of the posterior cornua , along the border of the spongy substance .
Of the White Columns of the Spinal Chord .
The anterior white columns of the chord have no proper transverse commissure , but are united in the middle line , at the bottom of the fissure , by a fibrous band or raphU .
In this situation , however , they are crossed transversely by horizontal and oblique tubular nerve-fibres and blood-vessels proceeding from the grey substance on either side , and which , in some regions of the chord , are so numerous that they nearly replace the longitudinal fibres+ .
The transverse slits observed by FOVILLE on each side of the raphe are fissures for the passage of blood-vessels .
Nor arle the posterior columns of the chord connected by a transverse commissure ; for the posterior fissure , as stated , first , I believe , by BELLINGERI* , reaches down to the border of the grey substance , or rather , to the posterior border of its transverse commissure , which has been mistaken and described by FOVILLE as a commissure between the posterior white columns , formed by their coalescence at the bottom of the fissuret .
Of the Origin of the Spinal Nerves .
Posterior Roots.--The bundles of fibres which form the posterior roots of the spinal nerves are much larger , but less numerous , than those of the anterior ; the fibres themselves , however , are mostly finer and more delicate+ .
They are attached immediately to the posterior white columns only ?
, which they traverse obliquely inwards , interlacing and forming with each other an intricate plexus ( see figs. 6 and 14 ) .
From this plexus straight and distinct bundles I| enter the posterior cornua along their whole breadth , and cross the substantia gelatinosa both obliquely and at right angles ; some being immediately continuous with fibres of the transverse comrnissure , while others , after plunging into the spongy portion of the cornua to unequal depths , break up and form a finer net-work which extends forwards into the anterior cornua : some of their fibres , after traversing the grey substance , pass out , as already described , into the posterior and lateral white columns .
Anterior Roots.-These are attached exclusively to the anterior parts of the anterolateral columns .
They do not always enter the chord directly , or at the points of attachment , but sometimes run for a short distance transversely along its circumference ( see Plate XXI .
fig. 6 ) .
They then traverse the antero-lateral columns somewhat obliquely , and in straight and distinct bundles , which do not , like those of the posterior nerves , cross and interlace each other , but proceed directly to the anterior grey cornu* .
Their connection with the latter is still doubted by many physiologists of eminence , but in the preparations which illustrate this paper , it may be seen as clearly and satisfactorily under the microscope , as their connection with the white columns is perceived by the naked eye- .
On reaching the grey cornua , they break up into smaller bundles and separate fibrils , which diverge in various directions .
Some of the fibres proceed to the right and left , crossed by others from neighbouring bundles ( see Plates XXIII .
and XXV .
figs. 14 and 15 ) .
Of those proceeding within the external border of the cornu , a few pass out to the antero-lateral columns ; while others , after winding round groups of caudate vesicles , curve inwards and join the fibres of the transverse commissure .
Of those proceeding along the inner border of the cornu , a few pass into the white column at the side of the median fissure ; while others , on reaching its base , curve round , and , in company with fibres from the posterior cornu , cross obliquely through the junction of the anterior columns in front of the spinal canal , where they decussate with corresponding fibres from the opposite side .
The remaining bundles of the roots plunge into the central portion of the cornu , and winding among its vesicles , are lost in the intricate network ( see fig. 14 ) .
A few of their fibres , after proceeding to some depth in the grey substance , bend round and take a more or less longitudinal direction .
Of the Nerve-tubes of the Spinal Chord .
The nerve-tube is endowed with considerable elasticity , and may be drawn out and attenuated to a great extent .
It then loses its thick and sharply-defined borders , or double outline , and assumnes the appearanice of a much finer and more delicate fibre .
When partially broken by traction , the two extremities are connected often by one of its borders only , and sometimes only by the axis cylinder , which has then the appearance of an almost imperceptible , shadowy line ; in the unbroken portion of the fibre , however , the axis cylinder appears perfectly pellucid .
The following summary of the principal facts described in this paper may perhaps be found useful .
That the posterior grey substance , at the lower extremity , and in the dorsal region , of the spinal chord , consists only of a single mass ; and that the substantia gelatinosa there extends uninterruptedly across from one side to the other .
That the nerve-fibres of the grey substance , including those of the substantia gelatinosa , are not grey fibres bearing nuclei , like those of the sympathetic , but fine tubules .
That two considerable columns of caudate vesicles ( which I have named the posterior vesicular columns ) in intimate connection with the posterior roots of the nerves , extend through the whole length of the chord ; commencing small at its lower extremity , increasing in size in the lumnbar and cervical enlargements , and terminating at the upper part of the medulla oblongata .
That the number of caudate vesicles , particularly in the anterior grey substance , is in direct proportion to the size of the nerves .
That the column of vesicles into which , in the cervical region , the spinal-accessory nerve may be traced , extends down the chord as far as the lurmbar enlargement .
That a considerable branch of the spinal-accessory nerve , after entering the grey substance through the lateral column , may be easily traced to the caudate vesicles of the anterior cornu .
That the spinal accessory is the only nerve imumediately attached to the lateral column .
That the posterior roots of the spinal nerves are immediately attached to the posterior white columns only ; and the anterior roots to the anterior columns only ; but , That fibres from both these roots , after traversing certain portions of the grey substance , pass out again into the white columns .
That neither the anterior nor posterior white columns are connected by a transverse commissure .
That the central portion of the grey substance immediately surrounding the spinal canal is not a commissural structure , but a layer of fine fibrous tissue for supporting the walls of the canal , which is lined with a layer of columnar epithelium .
618 cc , o_ .
' : i.1 iIjI - .
/ 1 1-- , - . ?
~2 .
' ' / / 'I-ill ' X , i\ i~ " -.y U\1I - , ll N\'3.curpr _ , , . !
'-Au\ } 's. .
Xi kJ -*H L1 .
I.'. .
j k , l FPig.7 ~~~~~~ ~~~~PZZ 6.A Fii b ao C L..lrP dv..Pt'. .
1 .
, .
( A./ .f .
, CT t " CY I- ; :r.L ~~~~~~~ ?
/ ?
)/ : 'I / - ; ~~~~~~~t ~~~~~`c ~ ~~~~ ?
Pof &amp; George , itnho ?
graph , s , 54E , f5ts Gaxden4r .
IJ .
Tl &amp; ce , an.e a-t.Jel . ?
Ls~p-e ' .
' 'a oq'.'.'.'^ *8 F- .
*p -'n:`t '34 .
Lre^o T'r ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 17 -f I I'llX\ ' kX _i 0~ DSc TX '-~ I i'7. .
d. r r , %P2 7 , ' .
Pzi7. .
Tr.zs .
MD CC CLI.l ate XXI-p .
619 11 : A , I 1 II I ' I 'AX 4 % , I , -il 'Z.I i LJ.cl .
ake , adAvatdeL ?
ora &amp; George , lr s , 54 , atan GaE. .
w-Wiug , ma * " \ 1 , I flf I IN , I 1 P%zZ .
P ras MD CC CL .
Plz -XIVp 619 e I. Fi.g.I .
/ e I.a ... . ?
... .1 ~/ / K\ 7t i~~~~ *V I ' 4i-s I/ " '-.--- .
I~~ r"~~~ ' ` ; " C ' ?
r61 r ? ? ? ? ?
-I J. .
Cl arke , e rl , a anat .
I\\ iiI W. iti'( ' , 11 riid:'C , ,M 1j:tO Ip3R 5 ; Et~r:l ' : ; i : : fr-9 ; ?iZ 1-74K2Zie .
~ k..ix CC LI , " -7.1t &lt; / .'\ 1* _ .
: T , ' 2 ' % ? ?
7 rS .
; .e ' ' i. .
Is I , 'NS , - , --- % , *ecordI A ( .
, e &amp; ge itc , Sjxa-.t}.X.r , k1/ ;'I have now stated all that I have to say at present on the subject of the spinal chord ; but if the observations contained in this communication be considered by the Royal Society to throw important light on its structure , they will be followed by others that I have made on the medulla oblongata and cerebellum .
I cannot conclude , however , without acknowledging the kind interest shown me , during these inquiries , by Mr. SOLLY , Mr. GRAINGER , and Dr. MARSHALL HALL .
I am also much indebted to Mr. FREDERICK BROWN ( Member of the Microscopical Society ) for several ingenious contrivances with which he kindly furnished me .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE XX .
The Plates represent transverse sections of the spinal chord of the Calf , all of which , except the two last , were prepared according to the first metthod described in the paper .
The same letters indicate the same parts in all the figures .
Fig. 1 .
A section of the white and grey substances of the filiform extremity of the chord , scarcely more than one line in diameter ; magnified 20 diameters .
aa .
Posterior white columns ; bb .
Antero-lateral columns of one side ; c. Posterior lateral fissure , which separates the posterior from the anterolateral white columns ; d. Anterior median fissure ; d ' .
Posterior median fissure ; e. Foramen ; ff .
Anterior cornua ; gg .
Substantia gelatinosa .
On each side of the middle line are seen antero-posterior bundles of fine tubular fibres .
Fig. 2 .
A section of the grey substance of the chord about an inch higher up ; magnified 20 diameters .
h. Arched band of tubular fibres ; i. Light space surrounding the foramen and composed of a circular layer of fine fibrous tissue ; the margin of the foraren is set with columnar epithelium ; c " .
Rudiments of the posterior cornua ; on each side the substantia gelatinosa is broad , but is gradually narrowed at the middle line ; the dark or spongy portion of the cornua is seen projecting into it like the matted hairs of a brush .
This appearance is caused by oblique sections of bundles of nerves and blood-vessels which enter the grey substance in a more or less longitudinal direction , or with various degrees of obliquity ; these , together with the bands of longitudinal fibres , are the chief cause of its opacity , and form the principal difference between its structure and that of the substantia gelatinosa .
Fig. 3 .
Represents the same appearances higher up ; magnified 20 diameters .
The bundles of transverse commissural fibres are distinctly seen , as well as the decussating fibres in front of the spinal canal ; the two dark oval masses 619 behind these latter fibres are sections of thick bundles cut off by them from the anterior white columns ; i. Anterior roots of the nerves .
Fig. 4 .
Another section of the grey substance nearer the lumbar enlargement ; magnified 20 diameters .
The commencement of the posterior vesicular columns kk , is seen at the sides of the spinal canal ; other vesicles are also seen in the anterior cornua .
Fig. 5 .
A similar section through the lower part of the lumbar enlargement ; magnified 20 diameters .
The vesicles in the anterior cornua have considerably increased in number .
PLATE XXI .
Fig. 6 .
A section of the white and grey substance through the middle of the lumbar enlargement ; magnified 20 diameters .
The posterior vesicular columns kk are here situated within the posterior cornua , traversed and surrounded by fibres from the posterior roots of the nerves 11 , part of which are seen also to extend as far as the large groups of vesicles in the anterior cornua .
PLATE XXII .
Fig. 7 .
Outline of a section of the grey substance , through the upper part of the lumbar enlargement ; magnified only 10 diameters .
Fig. 9 .
A similar section through the lower part of the dorsal region ; magnified 20 diameters .
PLATE XXIII .
Fig. 8 .
Another section three-quarters of an inch higher up ; magnified 20 diameters .
Fig. 10 .
Another section of both the white and grey substance , through the middle of the dorsal region ; magnified 20 diameters .
Fig. 14 .
A similar section through the lumbar enlargement , prepared according to the second method described in the paper .
It represents the course of the fibres of the roots of the nerves , and of the transverse commissures , through the grey substance ; the vesicles have been omitted to prevent confusion .
The outline is magnified 20 diameters ; the fibres were drawn under a power of 100 .
Notwithstanding the distinctness of the fibrous arrangement here shown , it is to be understood that this figure , like the rest , is not a scheme , but an exact representation of one of the preparations which accompany the paper , as seen under the microscope .
620 Fig. 11 .
A similar section of one side through the middle of the cervical enlargement , between the roots of the nerves ; T1 ' , nerve-tubes and blood-vessels passing out from the grey substance ; the bundles of nerves are seen breaking up amongst the clusters of nerve-vesicles ; magnified 20 diameters .
Fig. 12 .
A section of the grey substance of one side , immediately below the first cervical nerves ; magnified 20 diameters .
m. Nucleus of the spinal.accessory nerve .
PLATE XXV .
Fig. 13 .
A section of the white and grey substance of one side through the lower part of the medulla oblongata ; magnified 20 diameters .
The spinal-accessory nerve , n , is seen entering the grey substance through the lateral column , and proceeding forwards to the vesicles of the anterior cornu .
Fig. 15 .
A group of caudate vesicles , traversed by the fibrils of the anterior rIoots of the nerves .
From a section of one of the anterior cornua in the lumbar enlargement of the chord ; prepared according to the second method , and magnified 220 diameters .

