III .
" Results of the Examination of certain Vegetable Products from India."-PartT .
By JOHN STENHOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1855 .
( Abstract .
) Through the kindness of my esteemed friend Dr. Royle , I have been permitted to select such vegetable products from the extensive collection at the India House as seemed most likely to repay the trouble of investigation .
My attention , during the last twelve months , has been chiefly directed to three of these vegetable substances ; and the results of their examination I now take the liberty of submitting to the Royal Society , to be followed by those of the others as they may be completed .
Datisca cannabina .
The first of these substances which I examined consisted of a quantity of the roots of the Datisca cannabina , from Lahore , where this plant is employed to dye silk of a fast yellow colour .
The roots , which had been cut into pieces about 6 or 8 inches long , were from a half to three-quarters of an inch in thickness .
They had a deep yellow colour .
A decoction of the leaves of the Datisca cannabina was examined by Braconnot in 1816 , who discovered in it a crystallizable principle , to which he gave the name of datiscine .
Braconnot , of course , did not subject this substance to analysis , but he described its appearance and properties in an exceedingly accurate manner* .
The observations of Braconnot had fallen into such entire oblivion , however , that for many years past , we find in most of the larger systems of chemistry the term datiscine used as synonymous with inuline .
Thus in Brande 's 'Chemistry , ' vol. ii .
p. 1168 , we find it stated that a variety of names had been given to inuline , such as " dahline , datiscine , " &amp;c. The bruised roots were extracted in a Mohr 's apparatus by longcontinued digestion with wood-spirit .
The liquor obtained , which had a dark brown colour , was concentrated by distilling off a portion of the wood-spirit .
The brown syrupy liquid remaining in the retort , on being poured into open vessels and standing for some time , deposited a resinous matter containing merely traces of a crystalline substance .
When this syrupy liquid , however , was treated with about half its bulk of hot water , the greater portion of the brown resin was rapidly deposited , and the mother-liquor having been poured off and left to spontaneous evaporation , deposited a considerable quantity of an imperfectly crystallizable substance resembling grape-sugar .
These crystals are datiscine containing a considerable amount of resinous matter .
The datiscine , however , is rendered perfectly pure by treatment with a solution of gelatine , to remove any trace of tannic acid , and repeated crystallizations out of weak spirits of wine .
Properties of Datiscine.-Datiscine , when pure , -is perfectly colourless .
It is very soluble in alcohol , even in the cold , boiling alcohol dissolving any amount of it .
By slow spontaneous evaporation , its alcoholic solutions yield small silky needles arranged in groups .
Cold water does not dissolve much of it , but it is tolerably soluble in boiling water , the hot solutions on cooling depositing it in shining scales .
Datiscine is not very soluble in ether ; but an ethereal solution , when evaporated , yielded larger crystals than were obtained by any other method .
On adding water to an alcoholic solution of datiscine , no precipitate is immediately obtained , unless the solution is greatly concentrated ; but on standing , very pure , pale yellowcoloured crystals of datiscine separate .
When datiscine is heated to about 180 ?
C. , it melts , and if the heat be increased , it burns , evolving an odour of caramel , and leaves a voluminous charcoal .
If datiscine be heated in a close vessel while a stream of dry air is slowly passed over it , a small quantity of a crystalline substance sublimes .
Datiscine and its solutions have a very bitter taste ; and though it does not produce any change on test-paper , I think there is reason to regard it as a feebly acid body .
It dissolves in solutions of the fixed alkalies and ammonia , also in limeand baryta-water .
The addition of an acid to these solutions causes the precipitation of the datiscine .
The aqueous solution of datiscine is precipitated by neutral and basic acetates of lead , and chloride of tin .
These precipitates have a bright yellow colour .
Salts of copper produce greenish , and those of peroxide of iron brownish-green precipitates .
In consequence of the lead salts forming such gelatinous precipitates , they could not be employed for determining the equivalent of datiscine .
Action of dilute Sulphuric Acid on Datiscine.-When an aqueous solution of datiscine is boiled for a few minutes with very dilute sulphuric acid , it deposits a crystalline substance .
On examining the solution filtered from the crystals , very distinct evidences of the presence of sugar were obtained .
These experiments show therefore that datiscine , like salicine and similar bodies , belongs to the class of glucosides , and is a copulated compound of sugar and another substance which I shall call " datiscetine .
" Datiscetine.-Datiscetine in its general appearance and properties closely resembles datiscine , but on a closer examination these two substances are found to differ essentially both in composition and properties .
Datiscetine when pure assumes the form of fine needles which are nearly colourless .
It is easily soluble in alcohol , a hot alcoholic solution , on cooling , depositing the greater portion in crystalline groups .
It is almost insoluble in water , consequently datiscetine is precipitated from its alcoholic solutions by the addition of water .
It dissolves in ether in almost any quantity , and is deposited on the evaporation of that liquid in needles .
These properties of datiscetine enable us to obtain it in a tolerably pure state , even when very impure datiscine is employed in its preparation .
Properties of Datiscetine.-Datiscetine has no taste .
When heated it melts like datiscine , but the heat required is much higher than for that body .
It recrystallizes on cooling .
By operating very cautiously , a portion of the datiscetine may be sublimed .
The sublimate , however , appears to be altered datiscetine .
Datiscetine when burned does not emit the odour of caramel .
Datiscetine , like datiscine , dissolves in alkaline solutions , and is reprecipitated by the addition of an acid .
An alcoholic solution of acetate of lead added to an alcoholic solution of datiscetine produces a deep yellow precipitate , which can be easily washed both by alcohol and water .
This precipitate therefore was subjected to analysis , and from the results obtained , the formula C.0 Hs8 10+ 2PbO was calculated , which agrees with the formula ( C30 H0 012 ) derived from the analysis of datiscetine .
Analysis of Datiscine.-It is difficult to calculate a formula for datiscine , the numbers of which shall agree with those found by analysis .
When , however , the decomposition of datiscine into datiscetine and sugar is taken into consideration , it seems probable that the formula for datiscine is Datiscetine + sugar = datiscine 30 HO0 12 + C12 H12 O 12= C42 H22 024 .
If the formula C42 H22 024 be correct , the decomposition of datiscine by dilute sulphuric acid would be analogous to that of salicine when treated in the same way .
Dilute hydrochloric acid , like dilute sulphuric acid , decomposes datiscine , converting it into datiscetine and sugar .
On boiling an aqueous solution of pure datiscine for some hours , traces of sugar could be detected , thus showing that a small portion of the datiscine had been decomposed .
It has been already shown that datiscine dissolves in cold solutions of potash without decomposition .
When boiled , however , with a strong solution of potash for some time , decomposition takes place , and the precipitate , thrown down by the addition of an acid , has all the properties of datiscetine .
In this respect , therefore , datiscine agrees with tannin and similar glucosides , which yield the same products when acted upon by acids and alkalies .
Yeast and emulsine appeared to exert no action on solutions of datiscine .
Action of Nitric Acid on Datiscine and Datiscetine.-Cold nitric acid of the ordinary strength acts violently upon datiscetine , brown vapours are disengaged , and a resinous substance is produced , which is ultimately dissolved , forming a dark red liquid , which , when evaporated , yields crystals of nitropicric acid .
Datiscine treated in the same way yields nitropicric and oxalic acids .
When datiscine is boiled with dilute nitric acid it dissolves , and the solution obtained , when cooled , deposits pale yellow crystals , which agree in every way with the properties ascribed to nitrosalicylic acid .
On allowing datiscine to stand in contact with dilute nitric acid in the cold it gradually dissolves , the solution , when left to evaporate in vacuo , depositing a mixture of oxalic and nitropicric acids .
Action of Potash on Datiscine and Datiscetine--It was stated in a previous part of this paper that datiscine and datiscetine dissolve in cold solutions of the alkalies without decomposition , and that datiscine , when boiled with potash , is decomposed with the formation of datiscetine .
It only remained , therefore , to try the action of fused hydrate of potash .
Datiscetine , when added in small successive portions to fused hydrate of potash , assumed a deep orange colour , and then dissolved with the evolution of hydrogen gas .
When the disengagement of hydrogen had ceased , the mass was dissolved in water and supersaturated with hydrochloric acid .
A partly resinous substance separated , which , by sublimation , yielded perfectly colourless , long crystals closely resembling benzoic acid .
Their solution in water on the addition of perchloride of iron gave that deep violet tint which disappears on the addition of hydrochloric acid , and is so characteristic of salicylic acid .
Action of Chromic Acid on Datiscetine.-On distilling datiscetine with bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid a liquid came over , containing no oily drops , but having the smell of salicylous acid , and which , when tested with a persalt of iron , formed a purplecoloured solution characteristic of that acid .
It follows therefore , I think , from the experiments already detailed , that datiscine , like salicine , phloridzine , &amp;c. , is a glucoside , and that it approaches nearer to salicine than any other glucoside , with the exception of populine , yet known .
I will conclude this account of datiscine by proposing the following practical application .
As is well known , the colouring matter of madder , when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , is changed into sugar and garancine , a new dye-stuff , which , for many purposes , is found superior to that originally present in the madder .
Within the last twelve months Mr. Lieshing , by treating the colouring matters in weld and quercitron bark with dilute sulphuric acid , has resolved them into new colouring matters , which are but slightly soluble in water , and are found nearly three times more powerful as dye-stuffs than the original colouring matters from which they had been produced .
As datiscine , when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , undergoes a perfectly similar transformation , being resolved into sugar and datiscetine , which has a much higher colouring power than the datiscine which has produced it , I have not the least doubt that silk dyers , who may hereafter employ solutions of datisca cannabina , will find it highly advantageous to convert their datiscine into datiscetine by boiling it with dilute sulphuric acid .
Oil of the Ptychotis Ajowan .
The Ptychotis Ajowan is an umbelliferous plant well known in India for its aromatic and carminative properties .
When its seeds are distilled with water they readily yield between five and six per cent. of an essential oil resembling in smell that of oil of thyme .
When this oil is left in shallow vessels to spontaneous evaporation at low temperatures , it deposits a large quantity of beautiful crystals , which are identical with the stearopten brought from India by the late Dr. Stocks , and described by me in a short notice in the December Number of the ' Pharmaceutical Journal ' for 1854 .
The crude oil was rectified , and the portion which came over between 160 ?
C. and 164 ?
C. was collected separately and carefully rectified over sodium .
Its boiling-point was found to be 172 ?
C. , and its composition isomeric with oil of turpentine , namely C10 H8 or C20 H16 .
The stearopten obtained from the less volatile portion of the oil was purified , and formed large flat rhombohedral crystals , which have been carefully measured by Professor Miller of Cambridge .
When subjected to analysis it gave the formula C20 H14 2 or C20 H13 1 HO .
In the notice of the stearopten of this oil which appeared in the 'Pharmaceutical Journal , ' from the examination of the small quantity then at my disposal , a different formula was deduced , which I now withdraw , and substitute the preceding formula , C20 H14 02 , in its stead .
When the crystalline stearopten is digested for eight or nine days with the strongest nitric acid , it is gradually converted into a crystallizable acid , apparently containing no nitrogen .
This acid is but slightly soluble even in boiling water , but is deposited in needles on the cooling of the solution .
It is very soluble in alcohol and ether , from which it is deposited in crystals .
Both its silver and its baryta salts are crystallizable , and appear very stable .
It 3 seems to me to be a new acid , and this I hope soon to be able to ascertain .
When the stearopten is gently warmed with oil of vitriol it dissolves , and , on cooling , solidifies into a crystalline mass .
This new compound , which is a copulated acid , dissolves readily in hot water , and , on cooling , is deposited in large scaly crystals , of a mother-of-pearl lustre .
It forms both a crystallizable lead and baryta salt .
When the stearopten is distilled with a mixture of peroxide of manganese and sulphuric acid , it yields a substance exceedingly analogous in almost every respect to the thym6il obtained by Lallemande by subjecting the stearopten of oil of thyme to similar treatment .
As the details of Lallemande 's experiments have not yet been published , it would be premature to pronounce with absolute confidence on the identity of the stearoptens from the Ptychotis and oil of thyme ; but if not identical , as I rather apprehend they are , they are certainly extremely similar bodies* .
Gum of the Gardenia lucida , Roxb .
( the Decamalee Gum of Scinde ) .
The specimen of this gum on which I operated was evidently very old .
It formed a hard , dry mass , of a dark brown colour , with numerous patches of a greenish-yellow matter disseminated through it .
It had but a faint odour , unless freshly fractured or gently heated , when it smelt like the urine of the cat .
A comparatively recent specimen of this gum , which I saw in the hands of the late Dr. Stocks , had merely the consistence of candied honey , and an exceedingly offensive odour .
Dr. Stocks informed me that the fresh gum was employed as a dressing for wounds , as it kept off the flies .
The resin was digested in strong spirit of wine , till a saturated solution was obtained .
This , on cooling , immediately .
deposited some yellow amorphous flocks .
These were separated by filtration , and the clear liquid slowly evaporated in vacuo .
On standing a few days , it deposited a quantity of golden yellow slender crystals , about half an inch in length .
The crystals had considerable lustre , and were very brittle .
To this crystalline substance I purpose giving the provisional name of Gardenine .
Gardenine is nearly insoluble both in cold and hot water .
It dissolves pretty readily in alcohol , but much less readily in ether ; ether yielding bright yellow solutions , out of which it crystallizes on cooling .
Alkalies , such as ammonia , do not appear to increase its solubility .
It is more soluble in hot hydrochloric and sulphuric acids than in water , and is precipitated , apparently unchanged , on the addition of water .
Its alcoholic solutions give no precipitate with ammonio-nitrate of silver , or with basic acetate of lead .
When gardenine is digested with concentrated nitric acid , it is rapidly decomposed ; nitropicric acid , but apparently no oxalic acid , being produced .
Unfortunately , from the very small quantity of resin at my disposal , I was unable to prepare a sufficient amount of the gardenine either to subject it to analysis or to examine it more particularly .
Dr. Royle has , however , commissioned a large quantity of the resin from India , which I trust will ere long enable me to complete its examination .
Gardenine appears to belong to the tolerably numerous class of indifferent crystallizable resins , of which it is certainly one of the most beautiful .

