X. An Account of some Experiments on the Combinations of different Metals and Chlorine , &amp;c. By John Davy , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Knt. LL. D. Sec. R. S. Read February 27 , 1812 .
Introduction .
MY brother , Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , appears to me to have demonstrated , in his last Bakerian Lecture , the existence of a class of bodies similar to metallic oxides , and consisting of metals in union with chlorine or oxymuriatic acid .
These combinations are the principal subject of the following pages .
I shall do imyself the honour of giving an account of the experiments I have made to ascertain the proportions of their constituent parts , and likewise of describing some that have not yet been noticed .
I shall have to relate also the attempts I have made to ascertain the proportions of sulphur in several sulphurets , and the experiments I have performed to estimate the quantity of oxygene in some metallic oxides .
The general analogy of definite proportions led me to both these undertakings .
This analogy , it will be perceived , I have constantly kept in view , and have had recourse to , both for detecting inaccuracies in my own experiments , and in considering the results of the experiments of others .
As the nomenclature connected with the old hypothesis , respecting oxymuriatic acid , is inconsistent with the new views of this substance , I shall venture to call the compounds of the letals and chlorine to be treated of , by the names which my brotter has proposed for them .
1 .
On the Cnbinations of Chlorine and Copper , c , There are two distinct combinations of chlorine and copper , both of which may be directly made by the combustion of this netal in chlorine gas .
When the gas was admitted into ai exhausted retort containing copper filings , the filings became ignited , a fixed fusible substance quickly formed , and the interior of the retort soon became lined with a fine yellowish brown sublimate .
The former substance evidently contains least chlorine , for when it was heated alone in chlorine gas , it absorbed an additional portion , and was converted into the latter .
Hence the fixed compound may , in conformity with the principles of Sir HUM-HRY DAVY'S nomenclature , be called cuprane , and the yellow sublimate , cupranea .
Cuprane may be procured in several other ways .
It may be obtained by heating together copper filings and corrosive sublimate ; and it was thus first discovered by BOYLE , who called it resin of copper , from its similitude to common resin .
Two parts of corrosive sublimate , and one part of copper filings , I have found the best proportions of the materials .
It may be obtained by boiling copper filings in muriatic acid , or by exposing slips of copper partially immersed in this acid to the atmosphere .
In the last instance , I have found the changes connected with the formation of cuprane rather complicated ; the copper exposed receives oxygene from the atmosphere , and acid from the ascending mrnriatic acid fumes , and is thus converted into a green insoluble salt , and this absorbing more muriatic acid , slowly passes into the deliquescent muriat , which flowing into the muriatic acid is changed by the action of the immersed copper into cuprane .
M. Poustr , the first modern chemist who examined cu- ?
prane , and who is commonly considered as the first discoverer of this compound , found it produced by the action of muriat of tin on muriat of copper ; he named it whbite muriat of copper , and ascertained that a similar substance results from the decomposition of the common deliquescent muriat by heat .
Cuprane , by whatever means prepared , possesses the same properties .
It is fusible at a heat just below that of redness , and in a close vessel , or a vessel with a very small orifice , it is not decomposed or sublimed by a strong red heat ; but if air , on the contrary , is freely admitted , it is dissipated in dense white fumes .
It is insoluble in water .
It effervesces in nitric acid .
It silently dissolves in muriatic acid , from which it may be separated by the addition of water , which precipitates it unaltered ; and it is decomposed by a solution of potash ; or by heating it with the fused hydrated alkali : when it affords the orange oxide of copper .
Its colour , transparency , and texture appear alone to vary .
It is generally opaque , of a dark brown colour , and of a confused hackly texture ; but I lave obtained it by cooling it slowly after it has been strongly heated , of a light yellow colour , semi-transparent , and crystallized , apparently in small plates .
Cupranea is only very slowly formed by leating cuprane in chlorine gas .
The best mode that I lave found , of procuring it , is by slowly evaporating to dryness , at a temperature not much above 0oo of FAHRENHEIT , the deliquescent muriat of copper .
Thus made , it has the same appearance Z2 7i : and the same properties , as when directly formed .
It is of a yellow colour , and pulverulent .
Exposed to the atmosphere , it is converted , by the action and absorption of water , into the deliquescent muriat , and its colour , during this alteration , changes from yellow first to white , and lastly to green .
It is decomposed by heat ; and even in chlorine gas when the experiment is made on a pretty large quantity , part of the chlorine is expelled , and assumes the gaseous state , and cuprane remains .
I have employed the same methods for ascertaining the proportions of the constituent parts of both these combinations .
I have separated the copper by iron , and the chlorine by means of nitrat of silver .
A solution of 8o grains of cuprane in nitro-muriatic acid , precipitated by iron , afforded 51.2 grains of copper , well washed , and perfectly dried .
A solution of the same quantity of cuprane in nitric acid , precipitated by nitrat of silver , afforded 117.5 grains of horn silver dried , till it ceased to suffer any loss of weight by exposure to a temperature above 5o FAHRENHEIT .
Since horn silver contains 24.5 per cent. of chlorine , * 80 grains of cuprane appear to contain 51.2 grains of copper and 28.8 of chlorine .
And ioo appear to consist of 36 chlorine 64 copper This ave ascertained by synthesis ; grais of pure silver disolved in nitric " This I have ascertained by synthesis ; Iz grainis of pure silver dis$olved in nitric acid , and precipitated with muriat of ammonia , yielded i5.9 grains of fused horn silver .
I do not give the particulars of the experiment , which was very carefully made ; because the result very nearly agrees with that of KLAPR ROTr and of other chemists .
A solution of 40 grains of cupranea in water , acidulated with muriatic acid , precipitated by iron afforded 18,8 grains of copper .
And a solution of 20 grains of cupranea in water , precipitated by nitrat of silver , afforded 43 grains of horn silveer .
Hence 1oo of cupranea , omitting the very slight loss , appear to consist of 53 chlorine 47 copper 0loo The deliquescent muriat and the nati 've muriat of copper of Peru , belong to a class of compounds apparently distinct from the preceding combinations of copper and chlorine .
The deliquescent salt is well understood ; and its composition may be inferred , independent of its water , from that of cupranea .
The native muriat is less known , I shall therefore relate the experiments I have made on this interesting mineral .
The specimen I have examined is part of a very fine one , presented to Sir HUMPHRY DAVY by WILLIAM JACOB , Esq. M. P. and deposited in the Museum of the Royal Institution .
It consists of muriat and carbonat of copper , of red oxide of iron , and of green coloured quartz .
The muriat is partly crystallized ; the crystals , from the trials I have made of them , appeared to be pure , and they were , on that account , made the subject of my experiments .
The crystallized muriat dissolves entirely and without effervescence , in all the acids in which I have tried it , and the deliquescent muriat of copper is in each instance formed , and 173 a combination of brown oxide of copper with the acid employed .
Heated slowly in a bent luted glass tube , connected with mercury , the native muriat affords water and oxygene gas , and the residue is an agglutinated brownish mass , which dissolves in muriatic acid and gives a greenish precipitate with potash , and is apparently a mixture of brown oxide of copper and cuprane .
When the heat is raised rapidly to redness , the water expelled is impregnated with muriatic acid , and muriat of copper .
I have obtained from 25 grains of the mineral heated to redness till gas ceased to be produced , just two cubic inches of oxygene .
This expulsion of oxygene seems to be owing to the action of chlorine on the brovwn oxide to form cuprane ; and there is , I have ascertained , a similar production of oxygene when heat is applied to a mixture of the deliquescent muriat and brown oxide of copper .
From these results , which perfectly agree with those obtained by eminent chemists on the Continent , who have examined different specimens of this mineral , it appears to be a submuriat of copper , differing in a chemical point of view from the deliquescent salt , merely in containing a smaller proportion of acid .
The following experiments were made with the design of ascertaining the proportions of its constituent parts .
50 grains of the crystals in powder , boiled in a solution of 5o grains of potash , afforded 36.5 grains of brown oxide of copper heated to dull redness .
And o2 grains dissolved in nitric acid , and precipitated by means of nitrat of silver afforded 12.9 grains of dry horn slv .
r. Hence , considering the deficiency of weight , as indicating the quantity of combined water , ioo of the native sub-muriat of copper seem to consist of 73.0 brown oxide C15.8o25 chlorine 16.2 muriatic acid &lt; o1.8 water L.47 hydrogene .
This analysis , allowance being made for difference of theory , nearly agrees with that of KLAPROTH .
M. PROUST , I believe , first discovered an artificial compound similar to the native sub-muriat of copper .
He obtained it , in the preparation of the nitro-muriat of copper , and also by a partial abstraction of the acid of the deliquescent muriat , by means of an alkali .
I have found that it may be procured in several other ways .
It may be made directly by adding the hydrated blue oxide of copper to a solution of muriat of copper ; and it may be very readily and economically prepared , by exposing to the atmosphere slips of copper partially immersed in muriatic acid ; and it is also produced by the exposure of cuprane to the atmosphere .
Its production in the last instance is accompanied withi that of the deliquescent muriat ; .
and the formation of both seems to be owing to the absorption of water and oxygene ; for cuprane , I have found , though apparently not in the least acted on by dry oxygene gas , is quickly changed when moistened with water and confined in a jar of this gas , and there is a rapid absorption of oxygene.* I have not examined all the specimens obtained by these different methods minutely , though sufficiently , I conceive , to ascertain their identity , and their similarity to the native comt pound .
The colour of all of them is greenish white , like that of the native , in a finely divided state .
When heated , they all afford water , oxygene gas , and a mixture of cuprane and brown oxide of copper .
I have analysed only the submuriat , precipitated from a solution of muriat of copper , by a weak solution of potash .
50 grains of this , well washed and dried , boiled in a solution of potash , afforded 36.3 grains of dried brown oxide of copper .
And ao grains dissolved in nitric acid , and precipitated by nitrat of silver , afforded 1275 grains of dried horn silver .
These results differ so little from those obtained with the native , as fairly to permit the conclusion , that the composition of the artificial and native submuriat of copper is the same .
2 .
Oan the Combinations of Tin and Chlori:e , &amp; 6c .
Tin , like copper , is capable of combining with two different proportions of chlorine .
The liquor of Libavius , one of the combinations , is directly formed by the combustion of the metal in chlorine gas ; and the other , I find , may be produced by heating together an amalgam of tin and calomel .
Thus obtained , it is similar to that which may be procured , by evaporating to dryness , the muriat containing , the gray oxide of til , and fusing the residue in a close vessel .
Both are of a gray colour , and of a resincus lustre and fracture , and both infiame , like tin itself , when heated in chlorine gas , and are converted into the liquor of Libavius by the absorption of a -fwesh portion of chlorine , 'ence , as the liquor of Libavius contains the largest proportion of chlorine , it may be called stannanea , and the other compound stannane .
, Stannane is fusible at a heat below that of dull redness ; it bears this temperature , if air be nearly excluded , without undergoing any change ; but when subjected to a heat , as strong as glass will bear without , being : fused , it appears to be , from the slight fume produced , partially decomposed .
It affords the liquor of Libavius when heated with corrosive sublimate , nitre , red oxide of mei'cury , or with the hyperoxymuriat of potash .
rn the three last instances , oxide of tin is also formed ; and with the hyperoxymuriat , the action is so violent , that inflammation is actually produced .
The liquor of Libavius and aurum musivum are formed when stannane.is heated with sulphur .
Stannane , by the action of water , appears to be converted into the insoluble submuriat of tin , and the acidulous muriat .
The stannanea or liquor of Libavius , that I have examined , was made by heating together an amalgam of tin and corrosive sublimate , in the proportions commonly recommended .
I have obtained this compound in another way , by treating the concentrated solution of the peroxide of tin in muriatic acid , with strong sulphuric acid ; a gentle heat applied to this mixture contained , in a retort , expels the fuming liquor , which may be condensed , as usual , in a cold receiver .
The only new and remarkable property , which I have observed the liquor of Libavius to possess , is , its action on oil of turpentine .
I was led to make trial of it from an idea of Sir HIUMPHRY DAVY , that the combinations of the metals andchlorine might be soluble in oils .
In the first experiment , when I poured the fuming liquor into the oil , inflammation immediately took place , with violent ebullition and production of dense reddish fumes .
I have used other specimens of oil of turpentine , expecting a similar inflammation , but without its occurrence , theugh there has been in every instance a considerable action .
The mixture of the two being made in a retort connected with mercury , no gas was generated , oxide of tin appeared to be formed , and a viscid oil was produced , which , like the fat oils , left a permanent stain on paper , and had little smell or taste , and which , digested with alcohol , imparted something which occasioned a permanent cloudiness on the admixture of water , and an odour to me not unlike that of artificial camphor .
The action of the liquor of Libavius on the oil of turpentine is worthy of further inquiry .
The preceding account of it , I am aware is very incomplete ; but I trust it will serve to call the attention of chemists to a subject so curious .
To discover the proportions of tin , and consequently of chlorine in stannane and stannanea , I have taken advantage of the superior affinity of zinc for chlorine , by means of which the tin is separated in its metallic state .
69.5 grains of stannane , made by heating in a glass tube with a very small orifice , an amalgam of tin with calomel , were , with the exception of two grains of metallic mercury , apparently a mere mechanical mixture , entirely dissolved in dilute muriatic acid .
A slip of clean zinc , immersed in this solution decanted from the residual mercury , quickly precipitated the tin in a very beautiful plumose form ; and this precipitate collected on a filter , and well washed and dried and fused into one globule under a cover of tallow in a small glass tube , weighed 42 grains .
As therefore 67.5 grains of stannane contain 4o grains of tin , ioo appear to consist of 62.22 tin 37.78 chlorine 100o00 As stannanea is extremely volatile , it is difficult to weigh it , with perfect accuracy .
The mode I adopted , was to pour it into a bottle half full of water , the weight of which was previously ascertained , and to infer the quantity added by the increase of weight .
81.75 grains of stannanea thus weighed in water , * afforded when decomposed by zinc 34 grains of tin .
Hence loo of stannanea appear to be composed of 42.1 tin 57.9 chlorine 100.0 I am not acquainted with any analytical method for directly ascertaining the proportion of chlorine in either of the two preceding combinations. .
Nitrat of silver , when immediately applied , will not answer the purpose , because the oxide of silver is partially reduced by the solution of stannane ; and an oxide of tin is thrown down in mixture with the horn silver from the liquor of Libavius , M. , PiOurT , : to whom we are indebted for ~very excellent investigations of the different combinations of copper and tinl first discovered a submuriat of tin .
He found that a solution of potash precipitated from the solution of muriat of tin this compound , and not the pure gray oxide of tin .
I have obtained it by his method , and all its properties which I have observed , are perfectly agreeable to its supposed composition .
It is decomposed by a red heat .
Subjected to distillation in a small bent glass tube connected with mercury , no gas Was produced , water containing muriatic acid and muriat of tin was expelled , and a sublimate like stannane was formed , and the fixed residue was gray oxide of tin .
It effervesces violently with nitric acid ; and strong sulphuric acid expels from it muriatic acid fumes .
It dissolves without effervescence in the muriatic and acetic and in the dilute , nitric , and sulphuric acids ; and all these acid solutions , as they give a black precipitate with a solution of corrosive sublimate , appear to contain the tin in the state of gray oxide .
The complete anaysis of this submuriat of tin is difficult The oxide it contains cannot be accurately separated by potash , nor can nitrat of silver be employed to ascertain the proportion of muriatic acid .
I have found 50 grains of it , dissolved in muriatic acid , to afford , when precipitated by zinc , 31 grains of metallic tin .
Now as this submuriat is similar to the submuriat of copper , the analogy being imperfect only in the latter containing the per .
oxide , and the former the protoxide , it is natural to infer that the proportion of muriatic acid is similar in both .
But the proportion of muriatic acid in the submuriat of coppe is apparently half ofthat which exists in the muriat ; hence supposing the composition of the submuriat of tin to be similar , oo of it will consist of:704 gray oxide.19 , oamuriatic acid 1o.6 water 100,0 Probability alone can be attached to this estimate .
I have not given the calculations by which it was made , as their data are liable to objection .
3 .
On the Combinations of Iron and Chlorine .
As there are two oxides of iron , so there are also two dis .
, tinct combinations of this metal and chlorine .
One may be directly formed by the combustion of iron wire in chlorine gas ; it is that volatile compound described by Sir HUMPHRY DAVY in his last Bakerian Lecture , which condenses after sublimation in the form of small brilliant iridescent plates .
The other , I find , may be procured by heating to redness , in a glass tube with a very small orifice , the residue which is obtained by evaporating to dryness the green muriat of iron ; it is a fixed substance requirinb a red heat for its fusion ; i is of a grayish but variegated colour , of a metallic splendour , and of a lamellar texture .
As it absorbs chlorine when heated in this gas , and becomes entirely converted intot the volatile compound , and as the volatile compound may likewise be obtained by heating in a glass tube nearly closed , the residue from the evaporation of the red muriat , it is evident that the fixed compound contains less chlorine than the volatile , and that the former , consequently , may be called ferrane , and the latter ferranea .
Ferrane dissolves in water and forms the green muriat of iron ; but the solution of the whole substance is not complete .
There is always left a small and variable quantity of black oxide , which may be considered , on account of its variability , in a state of mechanical mixture , rather than of chemical union with the ferrane .
Ferranea is entirely soluble in water .
The solution is identical with the red muriat of iron .
The analysis of both these compounds is easily effected by means of nitrat of silver .
50 grains of ferrane were put into water : the insoluble residue separated from the solution by decantation ; washed , dried , and heated to redness for a minute , previously moistened with oil , weighed 3 grains , and was in the state of the black oxide , being attracted by the magnet .
The solution entire , precipitated by nitrat of silver , afforded 10o.5 grains of dried horn silver , which indicating 25.1125 grains of chlorine , the proportion of iron , omitting the 3 grains of oxide , appears to be 21.8875 .
And hence loo of ferrane seem to consist of 53.43 chlorine 46.57 iron 100.00 Ferranea is not easily obtained in considerable quantities , I have been obliged in consequence to operate upon small portions .
The subject of analysis was procured by sublimation from the residue by evaporation of the red muriat .
20 grains of this , in brilliant scales , were weighed in water .
The solution , precipitated by nitrat of silver , yielded 53 grains of dried horn silver .
Hence ioo of ferranea appear to consist of 64.9 chlorine 35.1 iron 100.0 4 .
On the Combinations of Chlorine with Manganese , Lead , Zinc , Arsenic , Antimony , and Bismuth .
I have attempted , by several 'methods , to obtain more than one combination of these different metals and chlorine , but without success .
I have procured a compound of manganese and chlorine , by evaporating to dryness the white muriat of this metal , and heating to redness the residue in a glass tube , having only a very small orifice .
Muriatic acid vapour was produced , and a fixed compound remained , which required a red heat for its fusion , and was not altered by the strongest heat that could be given to it in the glass tube : ; but was rapidly decomposed when heated in an open vessel , muriatic acid fumes being evolved , and oxide of manganese formed , which was black or red , ac ' cording to the intensity of the heat applied .
The compound of manganese and chlorine is a very beautiful substance , it is of great brilliancy , generally of a pure delicate light pink colour and of a lameliar texture consisting of broad thin plates .
There is not much difficulty in obtaining this compound ' pure .
Iron , with which manganese is commonly contaminated , may be , separated by two or three repetitions of the solution of the compound in water , the evaporation to dryness of the clear filtered muriat , and fusion of the residue procured by evaporation .
Indeed , I think this a good general method for purifying manganese from iron .
One of the combinlations of the latter metal and chlorine being volatile , heat must separate it from the compound of manganese .
And I have thus obtained it so free from iron , that triple prussiat of potash added to its solution in water , gave merely a white precipitate without the slightest tint of blue .
This compound deliquesces when exposed to the atmosphere , and is converted into the white muriat .
Like ferrane , it affords a trifling residue when heated with water .
The residue is oxide of manganese , white at first , but soon becoming red , and even black ; it varies in quantity , according to the exclusion of air in the formation of the combination .
5o grains of the compound dissolved in water , with the exception of i grain ; this residue was separated by decantation of the fluid , washed , dried , and heated to redness , it was in the state of black oxide .
The colourless solution was precipitated by nitrat of silver .
The horn silver formed , when dried , was equal to 0o8 grains .
Hence , omitting the 1 grain of mixed oxide , 1oo of this compound appear to consist of 54 chlorine 46 manganese 100 The horn lead that I have analysed , was made by the decomposition of the nitrat of lead by muriatic acid , and it was well washed , dried , and fused in a glass tube with a small orifice .
The strongest red heat that I could apply to it , under these circumstances , did not occasion its sublimation .
5o grains of it that had been fused were dissolved in water .
This solution , heated with nitrat of silver , afforded 52.65 grains of dry horn silver .
Hence 1oo of horn lead appear to be composed of 25.78 chlorine 74.22 lead 100.00 As this compound , when decomposed by an alkali , affords the protoxide of lead , it may be called plumbane .
The butter of zinc I have examined , was obtained by evaporating to dryness the muriat of this metal , and by heating to redness the residue in a glass tube .
This compound is not volatile at a strong red heat in a close vessel , it fuses before it acquires a dull red heat , and on cooling it goes through .
several degrees of consistency , being viscid before it becomes solid .
This compound , when heated with water , affords a small residue of oxide of zinc , which , as in the preceding instances , may be considered as in the state of mechanical mixture .
In consequence of its powerful attraction for water , it is a very deliquescent substance ; on this account it is necessary to weigh it in water to avoid error .
49.5 grains of it thus weighed , dissolved entirely in water , with the exception of i grain of oxide of zinc , which was separated by decantation and dried and ignited , and its quantity ascertained to be as stated .
The solution precipitated by nitrat of silver afforded 99 grains of dried horn silver .
Hence , excluding the 1 grain of oxide , oo of butter of zinc seem to consist of 50 chlorine 50 zinc 100 This compound may be called zincane .
A compound of chlorine and arsenic has been long known , bearing the name of the fuming liquor of arsenic .
It may be formed in several ways ; by the combustion of arsenic in chlorine gas , by heating in a retort a mixture of arsenic and corrosive sublimate , or of arsenic and calomel , and by the distillation of muriat of arsenic with concentrated sulphuric acid .
The old method by means of corrosive sublimate appears best adapted for procuring it in a pure state .
About 6 parts of corrosive sublimate to 1 of arsenic are , I find , proper proportions .
The mixture of the two substances should be intimate , and the heat applied-to the retort for the distillation of the fuming liquor , gentle .
When the liquor was not colourless at first , I have purified it by a second distillation .
The fuming liquor of al^enic , it is well known , is decomposed by water .
The precipitate produced appears to be merely white oxide of arsenic , for , independent of other circumstances , it does not afford the fuming liquor when heated with strong sulphuric acid .
The fuming liquor , when gently heated , dissolves phosphorus , but it retains on cooling only a very small portion of this substance .
The warm solution is not luminous in the dark .
The fuming liquor also , when warm , readily dissolves sulphur ; indeed sulphur fused in the liquor seems capable of combining or of mixing with it in all proportions ; but on cooling the greatest part of the sulphur is deposited , and assumes a fine crystalline appearance ; the form of the crystals was apparently the octahedron .
This deposition seems to be merely sulphur with a little of the fuming liquor between the interstices of the crystals , for the crystals bear washing , and become tasteless superficially , but remain still acid internally , where the water has not penetrated .
It likewise dissolves resin .
That which was called rosin was the subject of experiment .
The solution was of a blueish green colour ; but when gently heated it became brown , and remained so on cooling .
The portion of resin the fuming liquor is capable of taking up , is very considerable ; when the resin was added in excess , a viscid mixture was formed .
The resinous solution was decomposed by water , and the resin was separated apparently unaltered mixed with white arsenic .
The fuming liquor is capable of combining with oil of turpentine and with olive oil .
When the mixture was made with either of these oils , there was a considerable elevation of temperature , and a homogeneous colourless fluid was in each instance obtained .
In these and some other properties , the fuming liquor of arsenic is analogous to the fuming compounds of chlorine and sulphur , and chlorine and phosphorus ; these too , having the power of dissolving sulphur , and phosphorus , and resin , and of entering into union with the fixed and volatile oils .
It is difficult to ascertain the proportion of the constituent parts of this compound by the ordinary modes of analysis , I have chosen therefore a synthetical method in preference ; and from repeated experiments I find that 9 grains of arsenic require for complete conversion into the fuming liquor , 4 cubic inches exactly of chlorine gas .
B b The experiments were thus conducted : the arsenic in one piece was put into a small glass retort having a stop-cock , the retort was exhausted , and a known volume of chlorine gas was admitted from a graduated receiver by means of other stopcocks , and the absorption of chlorine , after the entire conversion of the metal into the fuming liquor , was considered as the proportion condensed by the arsenic .
Now , since loo cubic inches of chlorine gas weigh just 76.5 grains , 2 grains of arsenic combine with 3.o6 grains of chlorine , the weight of 4 cubic inches of the gas .
Hence ioo of the fuming liquor appear to consist of 60.48 chlorine 39.52 arsenic 100.00 As the fuming liquor gives the white oxide when decomposed by water , arsenicane may be substituted for its old name .
The butter of antimony is a well known substance .
That which I have examined was obtained by heating together corrosive sublimate and antimony , or antimony and calomel ; and was always purified by a second distillation at a low temperature .
The best proportion of corrosive sublimate and the metal for making the compound , I have found to be about 22 parts of the former to i part of the latter .
The butter of antimony , like arsenicane , is capable , when rendered fluid by heat , of dissolving resin and sulphur , and of combining with the fixed and volatile oils .
It affects the oil of turpentine very like the liquor of Libavius ; the action is considerable , much heat is produced , and the oil is rendered brown .
When the butter of antimony is decomposed by a sufficiently large quantity of the hydrosulphuret of potash , that compound is formed which is commonly called the golden sulphur of antimony , and which when decomposed by heat , I have found to afford merely water and sulphuret of antimony.* To ascertain the proportion of antimony in the butter of antimony 60.5 grains of this substance colourless and crystallized , weighed in water , were heated in a solution of hydrosulphuret of potash .
The whole of the antimony was dissolved , and the hydrosulphuret of potash being in excess , there was no precipitation on cooling .
The solution was decomposed by muriatic acid , and the golden sulphur thus thrown down was collected on a filter well washed and dried ; heated slowly to redness in a glass tube , steam in plenty was disengaged with very slight traces of sulphur , and sulphuret of antimony remained , xhhich fused into one mass weighed 45 grains .
Accorditgr to the experiments of PROUST , which I have repeated with the same result , sulphuret of antimony contains 74.1 per cent. of metal .
Hence 45 grains of sulphuret or the 60.5 of b.ttcr of antimony , from which the sulphuret was procured , must cortain 33-35 of metal ; and considering the remainder 27.15 of the 60.5 as the proportion of chlorine , loo of the butter of antimony seem to consist of 9.,58 chlorine 60.42 antimony 1.00.00 This compound , as it yields when decomposed by water the submuriated protoxide , may be called antimoniane or stibiane .
A compound of bismuth and chlorine has been long known bearing the name of the butter of bismuth .
It is obtained both when bismuth is heated with corrosive sublimate and calomel .
t parts of corrosive sublimate to 1 part of metal , I have found good proportions for its preparation .
There is some difficulty in procuring it pure and entirely free from the mercury revived ; this is most readily effected by keeping the butter of bismuth in fusion , at a temperature just below that at which mercury boils ; the mercury slowly subsides and collects in the bottom of the vessel , and this operation continued for an hour or two affords a pure or nearly pure butter of bismuth .
Thus prepared , it is of a grayish white colour , opaque , uncrystallized , and of a granular texture .
In a glass tube , with a very small orifice , it bears a red heat without subliming .
As a hydrosulphuret of bismuth is produced when the butter of bismuth is heated with the hydrosulphuret of potash , and as this hydrosulphuret , like that of antimony , affords , when decomposed by heat , a sulphuret and water , I have applied the same mode of analysis to this compound as to the last .
55 grains of butter of bismuth were decomposed in a warm solution of hydrosulphuret of potash .
The dark brown hydrosulphuret of bismuth thus formed , and not dissolved , was collected on a filter ; the hydrosulphuretted solution was decomposed by muriatic acid , the slight precipitate of hydrosulphuret produced was added to the first portion , and the whole was well washed , dried , and heated to redness in a glass tube ; the sulphuret of bismuth thus obtained , fused into one mass , weighed 44.7 grains .
Ii had previously ascertained the proportion of metal in this sulphuret , and found it to be 81.8 per cent. 44.7 grains of sulphuret , or 55 grains of the butter , must therefore contain 36.5 grains of bismuth ; and hence , 1oo of bismuth appear to consist of 33.6 chlorine 66 &amp; 4 bismuth 100.0 The butter of bismuth may be called bismuthane .
Among the preceding combinations of the metals and chlorine , there is a surprising difference in respect to volatility and fusibility .
Iron and manganese , two difficultly fusible metals , form with chlorine readily fusible compounds , and a combination of the formler metal and chlorine is even volatile ; the compounds of tin and chlorine , and of chlorine and antimony , are very volatile substances , though the metals themselves are fixed at very high temperatures ; on the contrary , the combinations of chlorine with bismuth , zinc , and lead , do not exceed in fusibility ; indeed are not quite so fusible as the metals themselves .
I can offer no explanation of these phenomena , Another singularity attending the liquid fuming compounds of chlorine , such as the liquor of Libavius , the fumting liquor of arsenic , and the oxymnuriats of sulphur and phosphorus , is , that they do not become solid at low temperatures .
I have 1gI reduced , by means of a mixture of snow and muriat of lime , the temperature of all these substances eo degrees below the zero of FAHRENHEITS thermometer , but without affecting their liquidity .
The influence of atmospheric air on the compounds of the metals and chlorine at high temperatures is curious , and worthy of particular attention .
The combinations of chlorine with lead , zinc , copper , and bismuth , appear to be volatile in open vessels , and fixed in closed ones .
How moist air operates in these instances , it is difficult to say .
In other cases , where it evidently acts chemically , the changes explain themselves ; thus , when the compounds of iron and chlorine and of manganese and chlorine are heated in the open air , hygrometrical water of the atmosphere seems to be decomposed , as muriatic acid fumes are produced , and oxides of the metals formed .
Probably the volatility of the other compounds is connected with similar circumstances .
This action of moist air has hitherto been much neglected ; it is certainly worthy of being more fully inquired into , both in a theoretical and practical point of view .
Its importance in practice is exemplified in the reduction of horn silver , and in the formation of several of the compounds of chlorine and the metals ; if moist air be admitted in these operations , the silver will be lost , and the compounds not formed .
Guided by analogy , I have been led to try whether the muriat of magnesia , which is readily decomposed by heat in the open air , would not , when the air was excluded , by introducing it into a glass tube with a very small orifice , afford a permanent compound .
T'he result was agreeable to my expectations ; I obtained , by strongly heating the muriat for a quarter of an hour , a substance like enamel in appearance , being semi-fused , and which appeared to be a mixture of magnesia and the true compound of magnesium and chlorine , for heated with water magnesia was separated , and a muriat of magnesia formed .
5 .
On the Relation between the Proportion of Oxygene and Chlo , rine in Combination with several Metals .
Errors being very common in chemical analyses , even in those conducted most skilfully and carefully , all possible means should be taken to discover them ; and no means , I think , promise to be more effectual for this purpose , than the general analogy of definite proportions .
From a great variety of facts , it appears that oxygene and chlorine combine with bodies in the ratio of 7.5 to 33.6 .
With 1 part by weight of hydrogene , for example , 7.5 of oxygene unite to form water , and 33.6 of chlorine unite with the same proportion to produce muriatic acid gas .
To judge therefore of the accuracy of the analyses of the preceding combinations of the metals and chlorine , it is only necessary to compare them with the analyses of the oxides of the same metals .
If the two agree , there will be reason to consider them both correct , but should they disagree , there is equal reason for supposing one or both of them to be wrong .
Thus , as the orange oxide of copper is analogous to cuprane and the brown oxide to cupranea , the oxygene and chlorine should be to each other in these compounds as 7.5 to 33.6 .
And from comparison of my analysis , with those of Mr. CHENEVIX and M. PROUST , it appears , that in the two first , copper being as 60 , the oxygene is to the chlorine as 7.79 , instead of 7.5 to 83.77 , instead of 33.6 ; and in the two last as 7.5 to 33.6 , or as 15 to 67.2 .
Coincidences as near as might be reasonably expected .
There is not the same agreement between M. PROUST 's analyses of the oxides of tin and the preceding ones of the combinations of this metal and chlorine .
This discordance induced me to repeat my analyses , and obtaining the same result as at first , I directed my attention to the oxides of tin , and made the following experiments to ascertain the proportion of their constituent parts .
42.5 grains of tin , which had been precipitated from the muriat of this metal by zinc , were heated with nitric acid in a platina crucible , and slowly converted into peroxide ; the acid and water were driven off by gentle evaporation at first , and afterwards by a strong red heat continued for a quarter of an hour .
The peroxide thus produced was of a light yellow colour , and being very gradually dried , it was semi-transparent , and hard enough to scratch glass ; it weighed 54.25 grains .
Hence , as 42.5 grains of tin acquire , on conversion into peroxide , 11.75 grains of oxygene , this oxide appears to contain 21.66 per cent. of oxygene , just the quantity found in the native oxide by KLAPROTH , instead of 28 , the proportion stated by PROUST .
M. BERTHOLLET , jun .
has shown that M. PRousT 's estimate of 20 per cent. of oxygene in the protoxide is incorrect .
To ascertain the true proportion , 20 grains of tin were dissolved in strong muriatic acid in a retort connected with a pneumatic apparatus , and without the assistance of heat ; 16 cubic inches of hydrogene gas were produced .
( Barom. 30 , thermom .
60 ) as the production of this quantity of hydrogene indicates an absorption of oxygene by the tin equivalent to 8 cubic inches , or ( as loo cubic inches weigh 34.2 grains ) to 2.736 grains , the protoxide of tin appears to contain 11.99 per cent. of oxygene .
These analyses of the oxides , compared with those of the combinations of tin and chlorine , are found very nearly to agree .
The ratio of oxygene to chlorine in the two first similar compounds , the tin being as 55 , is as 7.5 to 33.4 ; and in the two last , viz. the peroxide and the liquor of Libavius , as 7.6 to 33.5 , or as 15.2 to 67 .
As the black oxide of iron is formed by the decomposition of ferrane by a solution of potassh , and the red oxide by that of ferranea , it is evident that these oxides and combinations of iron and chlorine should coincide in the proportions of their constituent parts .
This appears from the analyses * of Dr. THOMPSON to be nearly the case , for iron being as 29.5 , the oxygene is to the chlorine in the black oxide and ferrane as 8 instead of 7.5 to 33.6 ; and in the two others as 8 to 33.6 , or as 13.2 to 55.5 .
Here the agreement is less than in other instances ; but this is not surprising considering the different estimates of the proportions of oxygene in the oxides of iron , and the difficulty of ascertaining them correctly .
The yellow oxide of lead and the white oxides of antimony , bismuth , zinc , and arsenic are formed , when the combinations of these metals and chlorine are decomposed by a solution of potash .
But on comparison with the best analyses of the oxides , there is not , excepting in the case of zinc and arsenic , that coincidence of proportions which might be expected .
Zinc being as 34.5 , the oxygene in the oxide from the analysis of PROUST , is to the chlorine as 7.5 to $34.4 ; and the arsenic being as 21.9 , the oxygene , from the analysis of the same chemist , is to the chlorine as 7.3 to 33.6 .
The analyses of the oxides of the other metals being at variance with those of the chlorine combinations , I was induced to make the following experiments , with the hope of discovering the cause of the difference .
ioo grains of lead , which had been precipitated from the nitrat of lead by zinc , were dissolved in nitric acid and thrown down by carbonat of potash .
This precipitate of carbonat of lead was well washed and dried and heated to dull redness for a quarter of an hour in a platina crucible ; by this treatment all the carbonic acid was expelled ; the remaining yellow oxide weighed 107.7 grains , and it dissolved in muriatic acid -without effervescing , and without affording any residue of brown oxide .
Hence the yellow oxide of lead appears to contain 7.15 per cent. of oxygene .
And this proportion of oxygene in the oxide compared with that of chlorine in plumbane , lead being as 97.2 appears to be in the ratio of 7.5 to 33.8 , instead of that of 15.6 the estimate of KLAPROTH , or of 11.2 the estimate of Dr. THOMPSON to 33.8 .
KLAPROTH might have been misled by considering the hydrated oxide as a true white oxide free from water .
According to M. PROUST the peroxide of antimony contains 23 per cent , of oxyg cne , and the protoxide 18.* I have repeated this chemist 's experiments ; my results , in which the peroxide is concerned , agree with his ; but there is not the same concordance in those relating to the protoxide .
The protoxide I used was either prepared by the decomposition of the butter of antimony , or of the sulphat , by a boiling solution of carbonat of potash .
This oxide , in its purest state , I have always found as M. PROUST describes it , of a light fawn colour before fusion , and afterwards in mass of a gray colour , and of a radiated crystalline texture .
ioo grains of it that had been fused were heated in the state of powder with strong test nitric acid in a platina crucible , when nitrous gas ceased to be produced , the excess of nitric acid was expelled by a gentle heat , and the oxide was heated to dull redness , the increase of weight afte-r this , was equal to 1o.4 grains ; nitric acid was again added and the process repeated , but without any alteration of weight being produced .
Hence as the peroxide contains 23 per cent. the protoxide seems to contain 15 per cent. ; which proportion of oxygene very nearly agrees with that of chlorine in the butter of antimony , for antimony being as 42.5 , the f , orm:er is to the latter as 7.5 to 34.6 , instead of 33.6 .
I put some confidence in this estimate of the proportion of oxygene in the protoxide , not only on account of its agreement with the analysis of the butter of antimony , but because it was confirmed on the repetition of the experiment .
KLAPROTH concludes from his experiments , that the oxide of bismuth , prepared by means of nitric acid , contains 17.7 per cent. of oxygene , and in consequence this oxide has been considered distinct from that which is formed by direct calcination of the metal , and which contains a much smaller proportion .
But there is reason to believe that this difference does not really exist , and that there is only one known oxide of bismuuth , and that KLAPROTH'S oxide was an hydrated oxide ; for I have found that oo grains of bismuth , converted by nitric acid into oxide , precisely in the same manner as the 197 protoxide of antimony was more highly oxidated , gained only 11.1 grains .
KLAPROTH did not heat his oxide to redness , and hence apparently the discordance .
From the above result , which I have confirmed by repetition of the experiment , oxide of bismuth seems to contain lo per cent. of oxygene and bismuth being as 67.5 , the oxygene in the oxide is to the chlorine in the butter of bismuth , as 7.5 to 34$.2 .
6 .
On the Relation between the Proportion of Sulphur in the Sulphurets , and the Proportion of Chlorine in some of the Combinations of Chlorine and the Metals .
The last section afforded proofs of the useful application of the general analogy of definite proportions in correcting the results of chemical analyses .
In the present section , it is my intention to pursue a little further , the plan that I have adopted in the preceding , and to apply another test to the analyses of the combinations of the metals and chlorine , by comparing some of them with the combinations of the same metals and sulphur .
I was first led to examine the sulphurets of tin on a different account .
Aurum musivum , it has been observed , is formed when stannane is heated with sulphur .
According to M. PROUST , this substance is a sulphuretted oxide of tin .
Were this opinion correct , an argument might evidently be deduced from it , in favour of the existence of oxygene in chlorine .
To satisfy myself respecting this , I endeavoured to ascertain whether any sulphureous acid gas is produced by the decomposition of aurum musivum by heat , as it is commonly asserted .
I heated to redness in a bent luted green glass tube connected with a pneumatic mercurial apparatus about 20 grains of aurum musivum , prepared by the decomposition of stannane with sulphur , no more gas was produced than the expansion by heat occasioned , sulphur sublimed , and a gray sulphuret of tin remained .
These results I have several times obtained , and not only with aurum musivum prepared as the preceding , but with some also made according to WOULFE'S process .
As no sulphureous acid gas was produced , and as sulphur sublimed , it may be concluded that aurum musivum differs merely from the gray sulphuret in containing a larger quantity of sulphur .
My next object was to ascertain the exact proportion of sulphur in both these sulphurets , for the sake of com* parison with the combinations of tin and chlorine .
loo grains of tin in a finely divided state , as precipitated from the muriat of this metal by zinc , were heated in a glass tube intimately mixed with sulphur , the combination of the two was accompanied with vivid ignition , the sulphuret formed weighed 127.grains , and broken , it appeared perfectly hom-geneous ; it was pounded , and again heated with sulphur ; but the excess of sulphur being expelled , the fused sulphuret had not increased in weight .
The second time I made this experiment , I obtained the same result .
50 grains of aurum musivum , purified from mixed sulphur by exposure in a close vessel to a dull red heat , were decomposed by a bright red heat in a small green glass tube nicely weighed , and having only a very small orifice ; the loss of sulphur , by conversion into the gray sulphuret , was equal to 9.3 grains .
Hence , as 40.7 grains of gray sulphuret contain 8.72 grains oi sulphur , 5o grains of aurum musivum appear to contain 18.o0 grains .
The ratio in which sulphur combines with bodies is to that 199 in which oxygene and in which chlorine combines , as 15 to 7.5 and 33,6 .
This appears from the proportions of the constituent parts of sulphuretted hydrogene and sulphureous acid gas , for I have found too cubic inches of the former to weigh 36.64 grains , and loo of the latter 68.44 grains .
In the comparison , therefore , between the sulphurets of tin and the combinations of this metal and chlorine , 15 by weight of sulphur are equivalent to 33.6 of chlorine .
And the tin being as 55 , it appears from the analysis of the gray sulphuret and stannane , that the sulphur is to the chlorine as 15 exactly to 33.4 ; and from the analysis of the other two compounds , aurum musivum and the liquor of Libavius , as 15.5 to 33.5 , or as 31 to 67 .
The proportions of sulphur in the two sulphurets of iron , do not accord with the proportions of oxygene in the oxides , or of chlorine in the chlorine combinations ; but I am yet ignorant of the cause of this difference .
1oo grains of lead , heated with sulphur in a glass tube , afforded , in two trials , 15.5 grains of fused sulphuret .
Hence lead being as 97.2 , the sulphur is to the chlorine in the respective combinations as 15.09 to 33.8 .
Sulphuret of antimony contains 25.9 per cent. of sulphur .
Hence antimony being as 42.5 , the sulphur in the sulphuret is to the chlorine in the butter of antimony , as 14.86 to 34.6 .
ioo grains of bismuth heated with sulphur afforded 122.3 grains of sulphuret .
Hence bismuth being as 67.5 , the sulphur is to the chlorine as 150.8 to 34.2 .
In the following table , the proportions are collected in which chlorine , sulphur , and oxygene combine with several metals ; the numbers representing the metals are kept constantly thq same , for the greater facility of comparison , 60 + +~ ~ + % 32.77 chlorine = cuprane .
67.2o ditto -= cupranea .
7.79 oxygene orange oxide .
+ 15.oo ditto 55 + -3340 chlorine 4+ 67.00 ditto + 15.00 sulphur + 31.0oo ditto + 7.5 ?
oxygene -+ 15.so ditto *9.5 + 33.60 chlorine + 55-50 ditto = brown oxide .
= stannane .
= stannanea , = gray sulphuret .
= aurum musivum .
= protoxide .
= peroxide .
-ferrane .
= ferranea ; + 8.oo oxygene black oxide + 13g.2o ditto = red oxide , Manganese 28.44 +3.6o chlorine .
Lead g97.2 + 33.80 chllorine = plumbane .
+ 15.o9 sulphur = sutlpiuret .
+ 7.50 oxygene = yellow oxide .
Zinc 3.5 + 34.40 chlorine = zincane .
47.50 oxygene -oxide .
Arsenic 21.9 4 33.6o chlorine arsenicane .
+ 7.30 oxygene = white oxide .
Antimony 425 -+ 384.6o chlorine = artimonane .
4 .
14.86 sulphur = sulphuret .
+7.50 oxygene = protoxide .
Bismuth 67.5 + 34-.2 chlorine = bismuthane .
+ i5.o8 sulphur sulphuret .
+ 7.50 oxygene oxide .
MDCCCXII D Copper Tin Iron 2001 Dd 7 .
On the Action of muriatic Acid on some Combinations of Chlorine and Metals .
Sir HUNMnPH-Y DAVY has pointed out in a great variety of instances , the existence of an analogy between chlorine and oxygene .
Ie has shown that the former , united with certain inflammables , constitutes , like the latter , acid compounds ; and combined with metals , as it has already been observed , substances similar in many respects to metallic oxides .
I have kept this anaTogy in view in my inquiries , and directed by it in my experiments , I have obtained some results which appear to me to coincide with it .
Thus having been led to try the action of muriatic acid on different combinations of the metals and chlorine , I have found many of them capable of uniting with this acid , and of forming compounds not dissimilar to some of those consisting of acids and metallic oxides .
Corrosive sublimate , stannane , cuprane , and the combinations of chlorine with antimony , zinc , lead , and silver are all soluble in different degrees in muriatic acid .
Corrosive sublimate , which is but sparingly soluble in water , and still more sparingly in the sulphuric and nitric acids , is , I have ascertained , very readily soluble in muriatic acid .
X cubic inch of the common strong acid takes up about 150 grains of this substance , and when gently heated , a quantity far more considerable , about 10oo grains .
The compound thus formed solidifies on cooling into a crystalline fibrous mass of a pearly and brilliant lustre .
It is decomposed by heat , the acid being first expelled , and when exposed to the atmosphere , it efflo ?
o resces and appears to lose its acid , for afterwards analysed , it is found to be pure corrosive sublimate .
When I first tried the action of muriatic acid on the different combinations of chlorine already mentioned , I was not aware that KLAPROTH had before observed the solubility of horn silver in this acid , and Mr. CHIENEVIX that of cuprane .
Horn silver , cuprane , and horn lead are precipitated from muriatic acid , unaltered by water .
Both the hot saturated solutions of the two last compounds deposit crystals on cooling ; those , from the solution of the former , are of an olive green colour and of a prismatic form , and consist of cuprane and muriatic acid ; those from the latter , are small white brilliant plates .
Finding the combinations of the metals and chlorine , so generally soluble in liquid muriatic acid , I expected that some of them might absorb muriatic acid gas ; but none that I have tried have possessed this property , not even the liquor of Libavius .
Indeed this is not singular , for water is necessary to the composition of many saline bodies , neutral carbonat of ammonia and nitrat of ammonia , for instance , cannot be formed without the presence of water .
Neither is the precipitation of cuprane , horn silver , and horn lead from muriatic acid by water extraordinary ; there are several salts containing metallic oxides which are liable to the same change , the oxides having less affinity for the acid , than water has .
The action of muriatic acid on the combinations of the different metals and chlorine will , I have little doubt , afford , when more minutely investigated , explanations of many phenomena which are not yet well accounted for .
Before I conclude , I shall mention only one instance to which it already appears Dd to be applicable .
M. PROUST has observed the decomposition of calomel by boiling muriatic acid , and its conversion into corrosive sublimate and running mercury .
Now calomel being insoluble in muriatic acid , these changes evidently appear to be owing to the strong attraction of the acid , for corrosive sublimate , which has been already shown to exist .

