" Suggestions for the Attainment of a Systematic Representation of the Physical Aspect of the Moon .
" By John PHILLIPS , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Reader in Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received January 15 , 1862 .
I. SKETCH OF THE PROGRESS OF SELENOGRAPHY .
( a ) By Eye-draughts and Micrometry .
1 .
Beginning with the labours of Hevelius ( 1647 ) , maps of the moon , embracing the whole , and signalizing special parts , have been repeated by Riccioli ( 1651 ) , Cassini ( 1680 ) , Lalande ( 1787 ) , T. Meyer ( 1748 ) , Lambert-Schroter ( 1791 ) , Lohrmann ( 1824 ) , Beer and Madler ( 1836 ) .
2 .
The degree in which these laborious efforts may be regarded as meeting the wants of " Selenography , " is about equal to that in which the maps of England of the last century satisfy the requirements of physical geography ; and in the same proportion as the great oneinch Ordnance Map of 1862 is superior to the old Chart of 1800 , so should be the new drawings of the features of the moon to the older delineations .
3 .
That such drawings are attainable by the patient employment of modern instruments , in hands capable of good sketching , is , I believe , not doubted by any competent observer with either achromatic or reflecting telescopes having equatorial mounting .
If any one doubts , let him compare the Copernicus of Madler with the Copernicus of Secchi ; nay , I may venture to ask that my own Gassendi be placed side by side with that of any of the charts already named .
4 .
The results likely to be attained by such a series of careful drawings of special parts of the moon 's surface , in one branch of scientific research , are recognized by Mr. Conybeare in his Report on Geology to the British Association in 1832 .
Indeed , it may be boldly affirmed that a competent theory of volcanic action can hardly 31 be regarded as having been adequately tested , much less completed , without a careful study of the magnificent volcanic surface of the moon , where for the most part the consolidated products of a long train of igneous eruptions are exhibited as clearly as in the celebrated region of Auvergne .
5 .
Considerations of this kind pressing upon Lord Rosse , Dr. Robinson , General Sabine , and other persons acquainted with the growing power of telescopes , and the necessity of organizing a system for the use of them on themoon , induced the British Association , assembled at Belfast in 1852 , to constitute a Committee , consisting of the Earl of Rosse , the Rev , Dr. Robinson , and Professor Phillips , for the purpose of drawing up a Report on the physical character of the moon 's surface as compared with that of the earth .
6 .
Acting as Secretary to this Committee , Professor Phillips forwarded invitations to fourteen selected observers , in Great Britain and Ireland , the United States , and several localities in Europe , known to be in possession of adequate instrumental power , or willing to provide it .
To each observer a certain limited tract was offered , his peculiar work , but everyone was requested to add whatever information he might judge useful relating to other parts of the moon 's surface .
7 .
The answers to these invitations were for the most part favourable as to good intentions ; but in several cases want of adequate leisure , sometimes want of health , sometimes other causes were mentioned ; and practically it was found that very few of the selected observers sent contributions which fulfilled the wishes of the Committee , even as preliminary surveys .
The Secretary of the Committee , indeed , constructed an equatorial of large size for his own share of work , mounted it in the open air , made photographic and eye-drawings , and completed a sketch of his appointed region on the 19th of May , 1853 , which sketch has been in the hands of the Royal Society .
He thus established , to the satisfaction of several friends , the facility of carrying out the desires of the Committee , and would have taken up fresh districts , on every suitable occasion , but for the change of his residence from York to Oxford .
The instrumental mounting being specially fitted for York and the circumstances of his residence there , he was unable to continue his work at Oxford ; and several years , as far as this problem is concerned , have 3 been lost to him for want of an instrument of adequate power and suitable construction , conveniently placed and always at command .
8 .
Mr. Nasmyth , several years since , employed his fine reflector , with a peculiar apparatus for drawing , in these representations of the moon , :which have justly earned for him a reputation in philosophic art of which even the inventor of the steam-hammer may be justly proud .
He has lately preferred to use for his eye-draughts a fine achromatic by Cooke , of York , the same instrument which has been turned with such unexpected results to a scrutiny of the solar spots .
Professor Smyth of Edinburgh , and Professor Challis of Cambridge , made examinations and preliminary sketches of the Mare Crisium , Plato , and other interesting objects ; the former artist employing oilcolours in his scene-painting .
( b ) By Photography .
9 .
Meantime a new and beautiful art was making itself auxiliary to the delineation of the moon , -first by the silver plate of Daguerre , afterwards by the increasingly sensitive collodion surface .
The great achromatic of Cambridge , U.S. , under the hands of Bond and Whiffle , gave results of much promise ; at first the light-pictures were of the full moon , 2 inches diameter on daguerreotype plates * ; afterwards we saw larger representations of the crescent moon , with stronger lights and shadows on the ridges and in the hollows , several inches across ( 1851-53 ) .
10 .
While observing with the great reflector at Birr , every one was struck with the probability that almost instantaneous pictures could be obtained of the moon , stars , and planets , by the amazing quantity of light brought to the focus of that magnificent instrument .
Some trials had indeed been made in 1852 by the distinguished constructor and Mr. Woods ; but I am not aware of the results of later experiments with the great reflector .
In 1853 I gave much attention to the use of collodion , and employed an apparatus attached to my achromatic ( of 11 feet focus and 6 inches diameter ) , by which at first pictures of 1'2 inch diameter , and finally others from 2 to 3 inches were obtained , in times gradually reduced from 5 ' to 30 " and less .
I still possess many of these pictures ; the best , ,however , was destroyed in attempting to print from it .
Somewhat earlier than these trials of mine were the first efforts of Mr. De la Rue , of which I was not aware .
These efforts have from year to year been rewarded with still increasing success , till we have had from his skilful hands maps of the full moon of positive value , and stereographic pictures of admirable beauty .
These researches are still in progress , with every prospect of reaching a point from which eye-draughts may be started on a fresh basis for a systematic scrutiny of all parts of the moon , and the construction of maps on the scale of 2-2th of an inch to a mile on the middle part of the moor 's face ( or as the moon would appear under a power of 1000 ) .
12 .
Experiments rewarded by considerable success were completed by the Liverpool Photographic Societyin 1854 ; and several of their valuable drawings of the moon , magnified to a large scale , were exhibited at the Meeting of the British Association in Liverpool , along with one of mine similarly handled .
II .
PROPOSAL OF A METHOD FOn FURTHER PROGRESS .
13 .
By the labours , for the most part uncombined , of the last ten years , we have not achieved much beyond laying the foundation for further progress .
We have acquired , by means of photography , a general view of the whole moon as to its proportions of light and shade , the degrees of light of different parts of its surface , the direction of the light-streaks , and other phenomena , better than eye-draughts and micrometry could furnish .
By eye-draughts and micrometry alone many of the " ' mountains " and " ' seas " of the moon have been sketched in beautiful landscapes by Nasmyth and Smyth ; and two " ring mountains " have been surveyed and drawn in detail by Secchi ( Copernicus ) and Phillips ( Gassendi ) .
The next ten years may , doubtless , be justly expected to give an equal rate of progress ; photographic foundation will be made more effective for the whole moon and for different phases of the moon ; and we may add , by individual and sporadic efforts , a few more ring mountains to our meagre catalogue of objects examined .
It appears to me , however , that more than this can be attained , and ought to be attempted , on a plan of continuous work , by means of one instrument devoted to a survey of selected parts of the moon , and I proceed to explain my views .
[ Marchl 20 , 34 By Mr. De la Rue 's exertions principally , photographs of the moon have become an essential element in the desired delineations , and an impression is sometimes felt that by some possible further improvement in that wonderful art , eye-drawing may be dispensed with .
This , I am persuaded , can never happen ; but there is in my mind the firmest conviction that eye-drawing , founded on a basis of form obtained by photography , will produce results as to details of the moon 's peculiarities which light-pictures alone can never reach .
For whether the large photographs , on the scale of 100 inches to the moon 's diameter , which we desire to obtain , are to be had by enlarging the primary pictures of 1 or 2 inches , or by direct photographs on a larger scale , it seems itmpossible to escape from some want of definition , by reason of the imperfect surfaces used , or by reason of the inexact following of the moon as she changes her rate or alters her declination .
I know this latter error to be very likely of occurrence , even with disks taken beyond the negative eye-piece , with excellent clockwork movement , and am , on this account , the more ready to applaud Mr. De la Rue , whose skilful hands have so well mastered that and other difficulties .
I cannot too strongly express my sense of the great value of the light-pictures obtained by that gentleman-as a basis of form on which to construct eye-draughts , showing the mind 's interpretation of what the eye sees on the moon , but fails to discover in the finest photograph .
15 .
Reflecting on the comparatively very small degree of success which has rewarded the combination instituted nearly ten years since by the British Association , -remembering that instrumental means have been improved , while the scientific interest in a knowledge of the moon 's peculiarities has not diminished , -it appears to me possible to obtain a larger measure of success by a vigorous effort in a different direction .
It appears to me that , instead of requesting gentlemen who possess instruments already engaged in other researches to turn them to selenography and make drawings in which they may have no special interest , it will be better to carry a good instrument to an observer interested in the survey of the moon , and willing for a limited time to use his exertions for the accomplishment of a definite object .
In my own case I feel sure that this would succeed ; and I believe that mry case is essentially that of many intelligent observers of the moon accustomed to extra-meridional observations .
16 .
The first desideratum then is an Equatorial Instrument , constructed with the conditions of ample optical power , -great steadiness , -delicate adjustment , including a sufficient range for latitude , the usual circular and micrometrical readings , -clock-movement , &amp;c. , so that it may be in every point of view adapted for special observations of the moon ( sun , planets , comets , &amp;c. may also be observed ) , and be available for many years , in the same optical and space-measuring condition .
According to my view , founded on experience with various instruments , it must be an achromatic , mounted on a transportable solid stand , placed under the roof of a removeable observatory , capable of holding a clock and , if need be , a small transit .
The object-glass should be of 6 inches diameter , the focal length 16 or 17 diameters .
Such an instrument has actually been made by my direction ; it is finished , and stands complete in the workshop of the skilful artist , whose name is a guarantee of excellence , Mr. T. Cooke of York .
Thus the first requisite to give effect to my proposal is practically reached .
17 .
The second desideratum is that the instrument shall become the property of some scientific body constituted for long endurance , and endowed with so much influence as to be able to give effect and gain adherence to a plan of continuous work , by definite persons , for such periods of time as each in succession may command .
The instrument to be confided to each in succession , and mounted in a convenient manner for his use , at his home , during the time appointed .
Each observer to furnish , at least once a year , an account of his observations , with drawings on the plan already detailed in the instructions furnished by the Moon Committee of the British Association .
At the conclusion of his appointed period of observation , the instrument to be again at the disposal of the scientific body to which it belongs , either to be transferred to another observer , or the again entrusted to the first observer , according as may seem best for the attainment of the object in view .
18 .
I entertain no doubt that , after the operation of one or two years , each yielding friuit , there will be no other difficulty of obtaining 36 [ March 20 , suitable observers than the difficulty of choice among several proper persons , who will be glad to give their services .
To remove any difficulty as to the first trial , I presume to offer for the first two years my own services at Oxford ; having already sketched out a definite plan of work , which has not yet been attempted , and which I believe myself able to accomplish .
19 .
It would be no part of my plan to take photographs of the moon , but rather to obtain from other observatories the best examples of this kind of work , and devote every available hour to eye-sketching on a large scale of the exact appearance of selected parts of the lunar disk .
The drawings thus made , scrutinized and corrected in succeeding years , would gradually and not very slowly grow up to complete eye-draughts of the moon , under the conditions of sunrise , midday , and sunset ; and would themselves be again a starting-point for the guidance of even closer scrutiny , with the greatest telescopes and the sharpest eyes .
20 .
Finally , my proposal , if allowed to make one , would be , that , for the purpose of securing a series of satisfactory drawings of the physical features of the moon , a six-inch achromatic , by Cooke , constructed for the purpose , be purchased out of the funds of the Government Grant Committee , and held by a Board composed of three Members of the Royal Society , to be nominated in the first instance and the number afterwards filled up by the Council of the Royal Society , in trust for the use of observers to be appointed by the Board , each for a limited period , and for a defined area of work : the drawings and observations to be communicated , at least once a year , to the Board .
Cost of the instrument not to exceed 320 guineas , of a moveable house not to exceed ?
50 .
1862 .
] 37

