III .
" Notes on the Drawing of 'Copernicus , ' presented to the Royal Society by P. A. SEccHI .
" By JOHN PHILLIPS , Esq. , F.R.S. Communicated by Col. SABINE , V.P. &amp; Treas .
R.S. Received April 9 , 1856 .
Of the few attempts which have been made of late years to prepare drawings* , on a large scale , of selected lunar mountains , this contribution from the Roman Observatory appears to be one of the most successful .
It is on a scale of magnitude ( about 10 geographical miles to one inch ) such as only the larger modern telescopes can command , and characterized by such firmness of definition as to do honour alike to the maker of the instrument and to the artist engaged in the delineation .
It may assist those who have not attempted , with their own hands , any drawings of this kind , and desire to form a right judgement of the value of this work of P. Secchi , if I send for comparison a drawing of Gassendi , executed from my object-glass of 6inches ( Cook ) , with a focal length of 11 feet .
The drawing is on a scale of 20 geographical miles to an inch , and Gassendi thus appears of half the linear dimension of Copernicus , being really almost of the same diameter .
Placing together the two drawings , and remembering the appearance of Copernicus , as I have seen it through telescopes , some reflections arise which it may be permitted me to express , in the hope that we are now fairly entered on the long career of discoveries in the moon , to which the attention of astronomers has been of late systematically drawn by the Earl of Rosse and a Committee of the British Association .
In proportion as the power of the telescope rises , the seemingly simple 'ring mountains ' of the moon exhibit as much diversity of outline and structure as the larger terrestrial volcanoes when accurately mapped .
Thus while Gassendi , -40 ?
from the central meridian of the moon , and 17 ?
southt of the equator , has the obliquely elliptical contour due to a circle in that position , Copernicus , 20 ?
from the central meridian , and 10 ?
north of the equator , has its most conspicuous peripheral crest formed of seven principal nearly straight elements , approaching to equality in length , and meeting in points which are situated almost exactly in a circle of 24 geographical miles radius .
Here is a very important partial difference , coupled with a very important general agreement .
While Gassendi , with peaks 9000 feet high , projects like a huge narrow wall into the Mare iHumorum , and hangs over the interior plain in precipices as steep and many times as high as those over the Atrio del Cavallo , Copernicus , seated in the midst of broad land , on a base of 120 geographical miles , rises in many broken stages , bristling with a thousand silver-bright crests , -a perfect network of rough and complicated ground , crossed by lights and shades , which have a history of their own , and toward the inside falls off by many irregular terraces , down to an interior plain , as if the whole area had yielded , and the surface had been formed by enormous land-slips .
Four sharp notches are traced across the narrow ridge of Gassendi cutting it deeply , like the hollows left by decomposing lava dykes 500 feet broad ; one deeper and broader opening unites the inner plain with the outer Mare Humorum , and one far wider opening leads to an accessory crater , over whose awful depth the cliffs , 10,000 to 12,000 ft. high , spread black shadows round some central rocks .
In these particulars Copernicus offers a very different aspect .
Its high crest , of 10,000 feet , is only cut through by one straight narrow meridional groove , though broken by numerous fissures in other parts , and is in all parts so irregular , partially undulated , and varied with small crateriform points , and enclosed areas , resembling craters , as to offer little analogy to any truncated cone of eruption .
The highest summit , on the left hand ( west ) side-a huge rock-is conspicuous by its broad , deep and extended shade .
WVhat suggests a vast lava current , is equally remarkable on the northern slope .
Regarding now the central plains of these mountains , we remark in each several low ridges of rather sinuous forms , and several small mounds ( half a mile or more across ) , of which three central digitated masses , not pierced by craters , are the most elevated , and catch the earliest lights of morning which glance over the rocky borders of the basin .
Had the drawings been executed at the instant of sunrise on the central meridian line of the basin , these points would have stood up on the soft edge of the light and shade , as bright as the Swiss mountains at sunrise or sunset , but not like them reddened by the optical property of the atmosphere .
Gassendi has at least two ( I have somewhere a memorandum of more ) small craters within the central plain .
None such appear in this drawing of Copernicus .
In many other lunar mountains the centre is occupied by a crater-formed hill , as Vesuvius stands within Somma ; in others the hill remains a smooth rounded mass , but its crater is lost ; and a further stage of decay seems to be seen in Gassendi and Copernicus , where the central mass is broken into fragments and sculptured by ramified hollows .
May we ascribe these effects to the former action of a lunar atmosphere , now absorbed in the oxidated crust of the moon ?
If so , the lunar mountains have a history of water , as well as records of fire , and we must look on the sinuous ridges of the Mare Humorum with eyes accustomed to the gravel mounds of Norway and Ireland ; study the degraded craters after the models of the Eifel ; and map the 'rillen* ' with reference to valleys of erosion as well as of eruption .
In questions of this kind we shall find such drawings as this of the Roman astronomer of priceless value .
Studied , scrutinized , enriched with new discoveries , it may be the model for all time to come in this line of research .
It may be followed by two other drawings of the same mountain , -one at the moment when the sun is on the meridian of the central hillocks , to show the light streaks , which hide themselves when the sun is low , and another in the clear afternoon of the lunar day ( as much after midday , as this drawing was taken before noon ) , when every little crack and cavity becomes again distinct , but greatly altered in aspect , and the whole landscape changes under the eye of the observer ; the plains growing grayer and softer , and revealing many minute low undulations ; the hills looking more and more rugged , and burning with narrower , brighter and more angular tracts of silvery light .

