VII .
On the parallax of ' Lyrc .
By JOHN POND , Esq. Astronomer Royal , F. R. S. Read November 14 , 1822 .
MY former experiments with a fixed telescope upon c Cygni have always appeared to me so decisive , as to render hopeless any farther attempt to discover its parallax ; but respecting that of a Lyrae , my observations with the mural circle were not equally satisfactory ; for among the observations of this star we may find occasional discordances that admit of being interpreted in favour of parallax .
And although I have been inclined myself to attribute these irregularities to other causes , yet their existence made it desirable to institute new experiments .
The method with a fixed telescope , which I had contrived for a Cygni , could not here , I found , be applied successfully ; there being no star of nearly the same altitude but opposite in right ascension sufficiently bright to be observed throughout the year , a circumstance quite essential to that mode of observation .
I have employed therefore the mural circle to investigate , 1st , the difference of parallax between y Draconis and a Lyra : 2dly , the absolute parallax of the latter star ; the Dublin observations indicating , it may be remembered , that the parallax of y Draconis is insensible , but that of a Lyrae a very perceptible quantity .
The processes employed in these two investigations being very different , I shall consider each of them separately .
On the difference of parallax between &lt; y Draconis and a Lyra .
It is impossible to conceive a more simple process than that of determining with the mural circle the difference of polar distance between these stars .
From their proximity in right ascension , the operation is the same as that of measuring the angular distance of two terrestrial objects , about 12 ?
asunder , with a theodolite surrounded by six microscopes : for the mural circle , in principle , exactly resembles a vertical theodolite ; with this difference , that its microscopes , instead of being placed on a frame-work of brass , are securely fixed on a stone pier .
Now I find that the angular distance thus measured in winter does not differ one-tenth of a second from the same angular distance measured in summer ; and therefore , that the difference of parallax between the two stars is absolutely a quantity too small to be measured.:In this investigation , it is to be considered:that any constant error in the determination of the absolute polar distances has nothing to do with the question , it being the difference only of those distances at opposite seasons that is required .
To render all errors throughout the whole course of observation as constant as possible , the telescope remained fixed to the same part of the limb of theinstrument , and the utmost pains were taken to reduce the temperature in the Observatory to that of the outer air- ; the difference throughout the year not exceeding one degree .
The winter of 182 1-1822 was extremely favourablefor astronomical observation ; there were an I'unusual number of fine nights , and the weather was so mild and uniform , that we were enabled to equalise the temperature , so as to make it of noimportance whether the observations were 54 computed by the outer or inner thermometer ; and it is to this circumstance , in a great measure , that I attribute the perfect coincidence between the observations at different seasons .
It has been objected , however , that perhaps some unexpected effect of temperature deranges the instrument by the exact quantity of the difference of parallax attributed to these stars by Dr. BRINKLEY ; if we suppose a derangement from temperature so considerable as to give a sensible error , even after being diminished by the effect of six microscopes , we should expect the error to be much greater when the experiment is tried with two microscopes only ; for to suppose the contrary , would be to deny the tendency of six microscopes to correct the errors of two .
Now I find the same difference of polar distance whether I employ two microscopes or six ; temperature , therefore , cannot materially have vitiated the results by causing derangement in the form of the instrument .
In the whole of the above process I do not see one objectionable point , and if called upon to invent an instrument for this particular experiment , I could not devise one more perfect in principle than the mural circle .
Whoever will compare the above simple process with the more complicated one necessarily employed in using an instrument with two microscopes , turning freely in azimuth , will not hesitate , I think , in deciding upon which of the two instruments temperature is likely to produce the greatest error .
On the absolute parallax of a Lyrce .
The preceding observations only indicate that y Draconis 55 and a Lyrae have the same parallax , or that their difference of parallax is zero ; but they have no tendency to show what is the actual magnitude of the parallax that the two stars have in common .
If indeed we admit it to be proved , by the observations of BRADLEY , and the more recent ones of Dr. BRINKLEY , that the parallax of tie Draconis is insensible , we may then infer from the observed difference what is the parallax of the other star .
But the method of investigation that we are now about to consider , + does not depend on such an admission .
Having successfully adopted the method of observing by reflection , I was desirous of employing it in a series of observations upon a Lyree , with a view to determine this question .
This series began on the ist of July , 1822 , and has been continued to the present time.* Although this period embraces only half the interval in which the greatest change or double parallax is affected , a circumstance which at first may appear very disadvantageous , yet that is more than compensated , in my opinion , by the number of observations , and by a uniformity of temperature , such as never can be expected in the extreme seasons of winter and summer .
In observations of this nature the effects of temperature upon the instrument itself , and the uncertain refractions of the ray of light when brought into the lower part of the room , may produce errors of no inconsiderable magnitude , with reference to a question of so much nicety as the present .
I can show however in the present as in the former process , that no error from temperature , affecting the instrument , has introduced itself into this series of observations ; for I obtain the same result from the readings with two microscopes as from those made with six .
In the case of two microscopes , the angular distance is measured upon two arcs only .
Now it cannot be for a moment contended that an error from temperature , so great as not to be corrected by six microscopes , will not be much exaggerated by employing only two .
The errors then , if any , must arise from the effects of temperature on refraction , and not from the changes it occasions in the instrument .
But from the season which I have chosen for this investigation , and from the care that has been taken to equalise the temperature , the errors arising from the latter cause must be almost insensible .
My observations , thus conducted , indicate in the most decided manner , that the parallax of a Lyree cannot exceed a very small fraction of a second .
The advantages and disadvantages of the Dublin and Greenwich methods are in this process much more nearly balanced than in the former .
The Dublin instrument has the great advantage of determining the zenith distance in the course of a few minutes , whereas at Greenwich twenty-four hours at least , and frequently several days elapse , before a complete observation of the double altitude can be obtained by the method of reflection .
This disadvantage attending the Greenwich method could only be remedied by employing two mural circles for observing a star on the same night , both by direct vision and by reflection .
I have now to consider that argument on which the greatest reliance in favour of parallax has been placed , namely , that founded on the actual determination of the solar equation from the observations made with the Dublin instrument .
This argument may , I think , be thus stated .
By a series of observations made with a given instrument two equations have been disengaged , previously considered as unknown in amount , but known only as to the law of their variation .
Of these one is much smaller than the other .
Hence it is inferred , that as the instrument has faithfully disengaged the smaller equation ( respecting which there is no dispute ) , it must be admitted with equal fidelity to have disengaged the larger , which might be supposed the easier operation of the two .
This reasoning is strictly logical , as proving the disengagement of two equations , but it by no means proves the larger equation to be caused by parallax .
The larger equation here to be disengaged is after all so small , that it is impossible , in different points of its period , to show that the law assumed coincides with observation ; it is only a rude agreement at the points of the greatest and least variation that can be demonstrated .
The disengagement of the larger equation only proves therefore the existence of some regularly recurring cause , acting with greatest effect at the extreme seasons .
The reason , .
Iconceive , why Dr. BRINKLEY does not find parallax in , y Draconis is , that with respect to the zenith point , his instrument , like every one of a similar construction , is a perfect instrument .
No portion of the arc is employed , nor can temperature here occasion any errors by its changes .
As the star to be examined recedes from the zenith , the instrument becomes less and less perfect ; and he finds a small parallax in a Cygni , a larger in a Lyrae , and oftentimes a still larger in stars more remote from the zenith .
An additional reason for suspecting that the discordances observed arise from temperature is this : the greatest supposed parallax is found in those stars whose maximum and minimum of parallax would fall in the extreme seasons , and it is not at all improbable that irregular refraction , arising from the unequal state of the temperature within and without the Observatory , may have had a considerable share in occasioning the Dublin discordances , combined , perhaps , with the effect of the changes of temperature upon the instrument itself .
It is a circumstance not hitherto sufficiently noticed by astronomers , that there are many cases where the smallest disturbing cause will produce an error quadruple of its own amount ; and consequently , that the greatest error to which we are liable from such a cause at any one observation will be only one-fourth of the difference that we can detect between the most discordant of them .
Of such a nature are those disturbances which , like refraction for instance , introduce errors , both positive and negative , into the determination of either extremity of the arc that measures the distance between two stars .
By a singular combination of circumstances , not probable certainly when considered a priori , but by no means impossible , the variation caused by change of temperature may follow an annual law so little differing from that of parallax , as to bring out the assumed parallax , and to leave the solar nutation disengaged .
Notwithstanding the importance of these investigations to the history of astronomy , and to our forming a correct notion of the system of the universe , yet our decision ultimately turns upon so very small a quantity , that our having reduced the enquiry to these narrow limits , rather tends to show the perfection of each instrument than the defect of either .
On former occasions I considered the question of parallax in the particular case of a Lyra as undecided , and as perfectly open to future investigation ; but the observations of the present year 59 have produced , on my mind , a conviction approaching to moral certainty .
The history of annual parallax appears to me to be this : in proportion as instruments have been imperfect in their construction , they have misled observers into the belief of the existence of sensible parallax .
This has happened in Italy to astronomers of the very first reputation .
The Dublin instrument is superior to any of a similar construction on the Continent ; and accordingly , it shows a much less parallax than the Italian astronomers imagined they had detected .
Conceiving that I have established , beyond a doubt , that the Greenwich instrument approaches still nearer to perfection , I can come to no other conclusion than that this is the reason why it discovers no parallax at all .
Greenwich , are the quantities that must be applied to the Dublir and Greenwich observations to produce the interpolated catalogue .
TABLE IV .
contains four catalogues , in which , as no systematic difference can be traced , the instrument must be considered as perfect within the limits of the small discordances in Catalogue I. and II .
TABLE V. contains the errors of each of the preceding catalogues .
From this table it appears , that the regular difference between the results with six and with two microscopes , is now nearly insensible .
This must have arisen formerly from flexure ; and the new braces , though intended only to strengthen the attachment of the telescope to the circle , have , in fact , added strength and firmness to the whole fiame of the instrument .
( Vide Experiments on this subject in the volume of Observations for 1820 .
) TABLE VI .
shows the difference between the results of the Dublin and Greenwich circle , both at the present time , and in the year 1812 .
From this it is evident that a small change has taken place in one of the instruments .
Formerly the two instrments differed only one second in an arc of 90 ?
; at present , the difference amounts very exactly to double that quantity .
TABLE VII .
contains the two catalogues of Dr. BRINKLEY and Mr. BESSEL .
Here the differences are much greater and more irregular .
TABLE VIII .
contains a general catalogue of the stars , including several that were , not very accurately observed in 1813 ; but which , nevertheless , confirm in a remarkable manner the general law of southern deviation .
TABLES IX , X and XI .
contain observations of o Lyrae , by which it appears , that whatever may be the parallax of this star , it is not within the powers of our instrument to detect it .
With Dr. BRINKLEY'S Refraction , the result would have been a very small fraction of a second less in favour of parallax .

