XXVI .
Some observations on Corrosive Sublimate .
By JOHN DAVY , M.D. F. R. S. Read June 6 , 1822 .
l AM not aware that the operation of light on corrosive sublimate , has yet been minutely considered .
It is known that the liquor hydrargyri oxymuriatis of the London Pharmacopoeia is decomposed by light ; it has been stated , that the compound itself , when exposed to light , undergoes the same change ; and it has been recommended , in consequence , to keep it in black bottles .
With a view to acquire some precise information on this subject , the following experiments were instituted .
A few grains of corrosive sublimate , in the state of fine powder , were exposed to sunshine for 14 days in a small glass tube , corked and sealed .
No change was then produced , as was proved by the corrosive sublimate dissolving entirely in muriatic acid .
A solution of corrosive sublimate in distilled water was exposed to sunshine for the same lengt]l of time .
A thin white crust formed , which was found to be calomel ; and traces of free muriatic acid were detected in the solution .
Some liquor hydrargyri oxymuriatis and solutions of corrosive sublimate in rectified spirit and in ether were exposed to sunshine for the same time .
In the former , a considerable crust of calomel formed ; whilst in the two latter no change took place .
Some oil of turpentine was poured on , corrosive sublimate , and exposed to sunshine for a week .
The fluidity of the oil was slightly impaired , but the corrosive sublimate was unaltered .
To a saturated aqueous solution of corrosive sublimate , a few drops of muriatic acid were added , and to another saturated solution , a small quantity of muriate of ammonia .
No change was produced in these solutions by the action of light during exposure for three weeks .
, From these experiments it may be deduced , that light alone has not the power of decomposing corrosive sublimate , and that it does not produce the effect , excepting when aided by affinities of a complicated nature .
In confirmation of this conclusion , I beg leave to relate some other experiments made with a view to illustrate it , and which , I trust , will not prove uninteresting in themselves , The solubility of corrosive sublimate in water and alcohol is differently stated by authors .
In one experiment , made with as much accuracy as was in my power , 37 grains of distilled water were required to dissolve 2 grains of corrosive sublimate at the temperature 57O FAHRENHEIT , which is in the proportion of about $.4 per cent. Its degree of solubility increases greatly with the temperature , but in what ratio , it is not easy to ascertain with precision , owing to the trivial circumstances by which the crystallization of the salt is affected .
Alcohol , of specific gravity.816 , at 60 ?
, dissolves , I find , half its weight of corrosive sublimate : thus lo grains of it were completely dissolved in 20o grains of alcohol ; one grain more was added and gentle heat applied ; it dissolved , but on cooling separated 'm the form of minute spicular crystals .
The saturated solution was of specific gravity 1.08 .
Ether , I find , dissolves nearly one-third its weight of cor~ rosive sublimate : thus 20 grains of sulphuric ether of specific gravity.745 , took up 7 grains .
It was of the same specific gravity as the alcoholic solution , viz. 1.o8 .
It may be worthy of notice , that the solvent power of ether , as well as I could judge from my experiments , is not increased by elevation of temperature , or diminished by its reduction .
The boiling point , too , of the solution and of pure ether , appears to be the same .
In the act of ebullition , the solution seems to be decomposed : where a bubble of ether is formed , there a minute portion of corrosive sublimate is precipitated , owing , probably , to the property just mentioned .
Though no change is produced in corrosive sublimate by oil of turpentine under the influence of light , a considerable action and mutual decomposition is the result of a mixture of the two being gently heated .
On the application of a gentle heat to corrosive sublimate in fine powder moistened with oil of turpentine , the mixture becomes of a fawn colour ; there is a sudden and considerable elevation of temperature , acid fumes are generated , calomel is formed , and if the heat be raised , a residue of carbon is obtained .
The results appear to be modified by the proportions of the two substances : when the quantity of corrosive sublimate is large , the whole of the oil appears to be completely decomposed , and the products are , liquid muriatic acid , calomel , and charcoal : when the oil is in excess , the part that escapes decomposition , passes over 859 impregnated with muriatic acid ; and , judging from its smell , appears to contain a minute quantity of artificial camphor .
From the calomel that is mixed with it , and which rises with it , forming a very dense white vapour , it is not easy , on a small scale of experimenting , to demonstrate the actual formation of camphor .
I believe , that changes very similar take place , when corrosive sublimate is heated with other oils , both volatile and fixed .
Of the latter , I have tried one only , oil of almonds ; when heated with corrosive sublimate , it immediately blackens , and acid fumes are disengaged .
Of the former , I have tried , in addition to the oil of turpentine , the oils of cinnamon , nutmeg , juniper , carraway , peppermint , and cloves .
On the application of heat to the first four , mixed with corrosive sublimate , the colour changes to brown , and then to black , and copious acid fumes are disengaged .
The mixture of oil of cloves and corrosive sublimate , when gently heated , becomes of a beautiful bright purple , and the heat being raised , acid fumes are disengaged , an oil of the same purple colour distils over , and the residue becomes black .
The purple oil appears to be a compound of muriatic acid gas and oil of cloves ; and it can be produced either by passing muriatic acid gas into oil of cloves , or by agitating the oil with liquid muriatic acid .
On the addition of corrosive sublimate to oil of peppermint , the colour of the oil is immediately changed to bright yellow ; on the application of heat , it instantly blackens ; a light purple oil volatilises with acid fumes , and calomel with carbonaceous matter remains .
The production of a purple oil in this instance , appears to depend on the same cause as in the preceding , and it can be 860 formed in the same way by the action of muriatic acid or its gas .
In a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1812 , I have noticed the affinity of muriatic acid for corrosive sublimate .
Muriatic acid of specific gravity 1.158 , at 74 ?
, dissolves , I find , twice its weight of corrosive sublimate .
This solution may be considered as composed of 11 proportions of water , i muriatic acid , * and i salt .
In the act of forming , heat is evolved .
At 74 ?
this solution is of specific gravity 2.412 .
When its temperature is lowered a few degrees , it suddenly becomes solid , and forms a mass of delicate needle crystals , which rapidly melt , when the containing vessel is held in the warm hand .
It is commonly stated in systematic works , that corrosive sublimate is soluble in the sulphuric and nitric acids , as well as in the muriatic acid .
From the experiments which I have lately made , this does not appear to be the case .
One-tenth of a grain of corrosive sublimate was added to 5o grains of nitric acid of specific gravity 1.45 ; kept some time at the temperature 9o ?
, it did not diminish in bulk , nor did it appear to dissolve even at the boiling point of the acid , nor did the acid appear turbid on cooling , nor were any crystals deposited .
A similar experiment was made with the same quantity of sublimate and 63 grains of concentrated sulphuric acid : at 9go the sublimate did not dissolve ; and on the application of heat , fumes appeared , the salt rose through the acid , and a delicate crust of it was formed in the cool part of the vessel .
The experiments which I have made , and which I shall immediately relate , tend to corroborate an opinion long ago entertained , that muriate of ammonia and corrosive sublimate are capable of uniting and of forming a double salt , * and to prove that similar compounds may be formed with some other muriates , In the dry way , there appears to be an affinity exercised between corrosive sublimate and muriate of ammonia .
A mixture of the two , in the proportions of 34 of the former , and 6.75.by weight of the latter , heated , forms a compound more fusible and less volatile than either ingredient separate ; it may be kept liquid without volatilising by the gentle heat of a spirit lamp ; on cooling , it exhibits a very light grey translucent mass of a faint pearly lustre ; strongly heated , it sublimes , and appears to be partially decomposed , as traces of calomel and free muriatic acid are found mixed with the sublimate .
This compound , formed of one proportion of each ingredient , has more the character of a chemical compound , than any other mixture of the two ingredients that I have tried .
In the moist way , the affinities of corrosive sublimate and muriate of ammonia are better marked , and some of the combinations of the two have tolerably well defined qualities .
The following have the best claim to be considered distinct combinations of any which I have yet made : Muriate of Corrosive No. Water .
Ammonia .
Sublimate .
1 9.00 grs. 6.75 34.0oo 2 9.00 3.37 17.oo 3 9.00 3-37 8.50 4 9.00 10.12 25.50 No. i , is liquid at 14o ?
0 ; on cooling , it forms a solid mass of needle crystals .
No. 2 , is liquid at 850 ?
, and solid at 55 ? .
In the liquid form at the temperature just mentioned , it is of specific gravity 1.98 , No. 3 , is liquid at 55 ?
, and of specific gravity 1.58 .
No. 4 , is liquid at about io5 ' ; on cooling slowly to 6o ?
, it deposits some crystals which are foursided prisms , composed of facets alternately broad and narrow .
That corrosive sublimate and muriate of ammonia have a strong affinity for each other , is evident from the circumstance , that united , the solubility of the compound exceeds that of the most soluble ingredient .
This is proved by the solubility of the gd compound just described : farther in proof , it may be mentioned , that a saturated solution of muriate of ammonia at 60 ?
, is capable of dissolving its own weight very nearly of corrosive sublimate , and that after this addition it is capable of taking up more muriate of ammonia ; thus , 25.3 grains of such a saturated solution , after having taken up 95.1 grains of corrosive sublimate , dissolved 7 grains more of muriate of ammonia .
From this experiment it would appear , that corrosive sublimate is about 17 times more soluble in a saturated solution of muriate of ammonia than in water , and not o0 times , as is stated by some authors .
The results of these experiments led me to make trial of some other muriates , as of baryta , magnesia , potash , and soda .
A saturated solution of muriate of baryta , formed of 20 grains of water and of 8.7 grains of the crystallized salt , * dissolved 16 grains of corrosive sublimate at 60 ?
, and 4 grains more when gently heated ; on cooling , a very few , granular crystals were deposited .
The solution was of specific gravity 1.9 .
After rest for several hours , it deposited a small number of minute and apparently cubical crystals .
31 grains of muriatic acid , of specific gravity 1.58 , carefully neutralized with magnesia , dissolved 40 grains of corrosive sublimate , and , when gently heated , 25 grains more .
This solution remained transparent on cooling .
When 5 grains more of the sublimate were added , these too were dissolved when heated ; on cooling , a good many spear-shaped crystals formed .
The solution first made , when poured from one vessel into another , had an oily appearance , and was rather less fluid than concentrated sulphuric acid ; it was of specific gravity 2.83 ; gently evaporated , greyish pellicles formed , which rapidly deliquesced on exposure to the air .
A saturated solution of muriate of potash formed of i2 grains of water and 7 grains of dry muriate of potash , gently heated , dissolved 8 grains of corrosive sublimate .
On cooling to 60 ?
, it deposited only a very few needle crystals ; but when cooled by means of ether to 5o0 , it became nearly solid , a mass of delicate needle crystals admitting of being inverted .
A saturated solution of common salt , composed of go grains of water and 7 of salt , dissolved 32 grains of corrosive sublimate at 60 ?
; gently heated , 3 grains more were dissolved , and remained in solution on cooling ; but , on a farther addition of corrosive sublimate , the solution formed by heat , deposited , on cooling , small rhomboidal crystals .
The solution , containing 35 grains of sublimate , was of specific gravity 2.14 .
Like muriate of ammonia , the solubility of commonl salt in water appears to be increased by combining with corrosive sublimate , but in a less degree .
It appeared probable , that a compound of common salt and corrosive sublimate might be formed in the dry way .
7.5 grains of the former and 34 , of the latter were heated together : no proof was afforded of combination having taken place ; the corrosive sublimate , on the application of heat , rose as readily as if heated by itself .
I thought it possible that water containing common salt , might have the power of dissolving chlorides that are insoluble in water alone ; but experiment did not confirm the conjecture in the instance of calomel and horn silver .
May not the compounds of corrosive sublimate and common salt , muriate of magnesia and baryta , respectively , be considered as constituted of one proportion of each ingredient ?
The definite nature of the compounds with muriate of ammonia and potash , are perhaps more questionable .
It is worthy of remark , that all these compounds exhibit the properties of the most active constituent , or of that , the saturating power of which is greatest ; so that , though the quantity of corrosive sublimate dissolved in any one instance is large , it modifies very little the character of the solution .
To conclude ; it would appear from the preceding experiments that these menstrua , which have a strong affinity for corrosive sublimate , prevent its decomposition when exposed to light , as the muriates , alcohol , and ether ; and , on the contrary , that those solvents which exercise a weak affinity on it , and have a stronger affinity for muriatic acid , as water , and exceedingly dilute alcohol , aid the decomposing power of light .
6 5 The practical application to be deduced , relative to the formula for the liquor hydrargyri oxymuriatis , is obvious , and does not require to be pointed out .
Fort Pitt , Chatham , May 14 , 18 zz

