III .
" On the Bones of Birds at different Periods of their Growth .
" By JOHN DAVY , M.D. , &amp; .R.S .
, &amp;c. Received October 23 , 1866 .
In this paper I beg to submit to the Royal Society the results of some further observations on the bones of birds , and more especially on those bones which in the adult contain air .
In offering them , I would wish them to be considered as a continuation of those communicated on a former occasion , and published in the Proceedings of the Society* .
In engaging in the inquiry I have had two objects chiefly in view : one to endeavour to determine whether at an early stage the bones , which at maturity contain air , differ essentially from those of birds which are then , and are permanently filled with marrow ; another , to endeavour to ascertain in the instance of the former , the rate at which their early contents are absorbed , or an approximatian to the time that air takes the place of the medulla .
The birds of the first kind subjected to observation have been the following : the common fowl , duck , goose , turkey , pheasant , partridge , grouse , rook , common crow , owl , sparrow-hawk , buzzard , blue tit ; of the second kind , the woodcock , blackbird , water-ouzel , marten , swift , greenfinch , titlark , sparrow , stonechat , blackcap , yellow ammer , little sandpipe , canary .
I. Of the Common Fowl.-Of this bird I have examined the bones at different ages in a large number of instances .
A few are selected as most characteristic : 1 .
Of a foetal chick taken from the egg on the fourteenth day of incubation , the bones of the extremities were much advanced , the inferior more than the superior .
Their epiphyses were almost gelatinous ; but the shafts were partially ossified , and had already some firmness .
In both the humeri and femora , medullary matter was found .
It was of a red colour , and under the microscope exhibited the usual character of this tissue .
Broken up , in each were seen numerous oil-globules , with which were mixed blood-corpuscles and other corpuscles of a smaller size , some circular , some of an irregular form .
Vol. xiv .
337 , 440 , 475 .
2 .
A chicken twenty-eight days old , reckoning from the time of hatching , was found dead on the 12th of January ; during the preceding night there had been a severe frost .
It weighed 10,275 grs. ; one of its humeri in its moist state weighed 2'5 grs. ; one of its femora 8 grs. In each of them a soft red medullary matter was detected , which , like the preceding , was composed of oil-globules , blood-corpuscles , and smaller colourless corpuscles or cells .
The contents of the ulna and clavicular arch were similar , but in the latter the quantity of medullary matter was very minute .
3 .
Of a pullet three months old , which had been hatched on the 6th of April , and weighed , when examined , two pounds , the humeri thoroughly ossified , sank in water .
From one of them , opened under water , a few airbubbles only escaped , which came from its superior extremity .
The canal of the bone , excepting the small portion from which the air proceeded , was full of red marrow of the usual appearance of medullary tissue , and with similar contents .
A communication was found to exist by the air-foramen between the cancellated structure towards the head of the bone and the lung , through the adjoining air-sac .
4 .
Of another pullet of the same brood , but of more advanced growth , which , though three days younger when examined , weighed two pounds and three-quarters , the humeri sank in water , but in sinking maintained a perpendicular position .
One of them laid open was found to contain in its inferior portion , to the extent of '7 inch , marrow ; in its superior , to the extent of 18 inch , air .
5 .
Of a pullet three months and eleven days old , which had been hatched on the 28th of May , the humeri floated in water .
In one of them , laid open , a small portion of marrow was found in the cancellated structure of its distal extremity ; and in this portion a conspicuous blood-vessel terminated , 6 .
Of a cock five months old , which weighed five pounds , the testes large , and abounding in sperm-cells and spermatozoa , the humeri contained only air .
II .
Of the Partridge.-Of one shot on the 1st of September , which weighed 4136 grs. , the humeri and femora sank in water ; in sinking the distal extremity of the former reached.the bottom first .
From one of these , opened under water , a very little air escaped .
The lining membrane was very vascular , and the lower one-fourth of the canal was full of blood of a dark colour , contained apparently in varicose vessels .
Under the microscope , no oil-globules were distinguishable in the blood , only blood-corpuscles ; nor in any part of the cavity were there found any remains of marrow .
2 .
Of another , shot on the same day , which weighed 5226 grs. , the humeri swam in water , the femora sank .
Air only was found in the former .
On the lining membrane there were two or three delicate vessels containing florid blood .
The femora were full of a reddish marrow .
3 .
Of another , shot on the 19th of October , which weighed 5-132 grs. , Dthe state of the humeri and femora was very similar to that of the preceding , The humeri contained only air , the femora only marrow ; the lining membrane of the former was finely vascular ; the medullary tissue of the latter abounded in oil-globules and corpuscles suggestive of bloodcorpuscles altered .
III .
Of the Pheasant.-Of a female shot on the 9th of October , both the humeri and femora swam in water .
Both contained air without any marrow .
The former were perfectly white , and no vessels were visible in their lining membrane ; the latter were of a reddish hue , and their lining membrane was beautifully vascular , the vessels delicately ramifying , of a bright florid hue , and anastomosing , and this throughout the whole of the circumference .
2 .
Of another female , shot on the 17th of October , the humeri contained only air , the femora air with a trace of marrow* .
The latter were redder than the former , and their lining membrane was very vascular .
IV .
Of the Goose.-Of one hatched in the spring , which , when examined on the 26th June , weighed eight pounds , the humeri sank in water .
They were full of marrow of a light bright-red colour .
The quantity collected from one of them was about 82 grs. It exhibited the usual character of medullary cellular structure , and was rich in oil , which in drying exuded copiously from it ; but it contained comparatively few blood-corpuscles or blood-vessels , of which these corpuscles were the index .
2 .
Of another hatched on the 22nd of April , which on the 7th of August weighed nine pounds and a half , a humerus dissected out weighed 561 grs. , was 7'5 inches in length , and its shaft between *4 and *5 inch in width .
It sank in water .
Its upper third portion was of a darker hue than its inferior two-thirds .
The latter was full of a light-red marrow , abounding in oil. .
It owed its reddish hue to blood-vessels in the medullary structure .
The former , entirely without air , contained a collection of blood-vessels resting on a cancellated structure .
These vessels had the appearance of veins , seemed largely varicose , and were full of dark blood , which ( examined whilst warm ) was still fluid .
Of the other wing , the humerus was somewhat different the difference was in the superior portion .
Although the bone sank in water , a little air was found in this portion , and the blood-vessels in it were less distended , and contained , instead of dark blood , aerated blood of a florid hue .
The marrow , which occupied about twothirds of the shaft , terminated abruptly superiorly , and there a pretty large blood-vessel united the two parts the medullary and the varicose portions .
3 .
Of another hatched in the spring , examined on the 31st of October , the humeri contained only air .
The lining membrane of its cavity was rich in blood-vessels .
4 .
Of the humlerus of a goose hatched in the spring , weighing on the 2nd of November nine pounds , the canal was found full of air , with the exception of its inferior one-third ; this contained marrow rich in oil .
In one of several portions of it submitted to the microscope , a red vessel was seen containing granules and oil-globules .
In one direction it ended abruptly , as if torn ; in the other it was lost , as it were , by diffusion into , or blending with the cells of the medullary tissue .
The upper portion of the marrow , it may be remarked , where it came in contact with the air , had , as in some other specimens , a rounded well-defined surface .
In this instance no large blood-vessels were found in any part of the bone ; and on the delicate membrane connecting the trabecuiei of the cancellated structure , only a very few delicate vessels of a florid hue were to be seen .
5 .
Of a fifth , also hatched in the spring , when examined on the 20th of November , the humeri , like those of the last but one , were found to contain only air .
Their lining membrane was very vascular and partially varicose .
V. Of the Commoon Duck.-Of a young drake hatched on the 26th of April , which when weighed on the 13th of August was four pounds , the humeri sank in water .
They containad a light reddish marrow , and were entirely destitute of air .
2 .
Of two ducks of the same brood as the drake , the humeri , examined on the 15th of August , sank in water .
Two-thirds of each were filled with marrow ; one-third , the upper portion , with dark blood , seemingly in varicose vessels , which were connected with a light-coloured delicate membrane .
3 .
Of a duck , little more then one year old , the humeri contained only air .
VI .
Of the Red Grouse.-Of one , which on the 12th of August was not fully fledged ( it was shot for examination ) , the humeri contained air , the femora marrow .
2 .
Of another more advanced , shot on the 31st of August , weighing a pound and a quarter , the humeri contained air , the femora a little marrow , but more air , the former inferiorly .
3 .
Of a third , shot on the 28th of August , which weighed 8770 grs. , the humeri were hollow , the femora partially so , a little reddish marrow 'only remaining , and this in their inferior extremity .
4 .
Of one shot on the 27th of August , which weighed 11,856 grs. , and which , judging from its plumage , was probably a spring bird , both the femora and humeri swam in water and were free from any trace of marrow .
The liining membrane of the cavities of the femora was beautifully vascular , the vessels of a florid hue from the well-a6rated blood which they contained .
The lining membrane of the humeri was similarly vascular , but in a less strongly marked manner .
VII .
Of the Rook.-Of a youngone not quite capable of flight , shot on the 11lth of May , and which th enu weighled 6132 grs. , the humeri sank in water ; they contained no air , but a soft marrow , of a blood-red colour .
The bones were very vascular , and were easily cut .
2 .
Of another , shot on the 22nd of June , when capable of flight , though the quill-feathers of its wings were only partially hollow , its weight 5113 grs. , the humeri sank in water in a perpendicular position .
Of one which was examined , its inferior two-thirds were found full of a reddish marrow , its superior one-third of air .
The proportion of oil seemed greatest in the distal part of the marrow .
The bones were less vascula than those of the preceding , and pf greater firmness .
3 .
Of a third , shot on the 23rd of June , then weighing 4982 grs. , which , judging from the state of its feathers , its bursa Fabricii , ovary , and oviduct , had been hatched in the spring , the humneri were full of air without a vestige of marrow * .
VIII .
Common C'ow.-Of one shot on the 1st of June , then weighing 5402 grs. , its quill-feathers not fully formed , the humeri sank in water , and contained only marrow .
2 .
Of another shot on the 21st of June , weighing 6533 grs. , capable of flight , the humeri contained air .
The lining membrane was very vascular .
IX .
Of the Tawny Owl.-Of a young one , examined on the 21st of June , then weighing 4796 grs. , its quill-feathers not fully formed , the humeri contained a very red marrow , and were entirely destitute of air .
2 .
Of one of uncertain but mature age , judging from its general appearance , and which weighed on the 8th of April 5776 grs. , the humeri were full of air .
There was also air in the scapular arch , and partially in the furcula , its proximate portion .
X. Of the Sparrow-hawk.-Of a young one , which on the 31st of July weighed 3686 grs. , its sternumn then only partially ossified , still flexible , the humeri were for the most part hollow ; the little marrow they contained was confined to their distal portion .
The same remark was applicable to the scapular arch .
The femora contained even less marrow than the humeri ; they were very nearly full of air .
XI .
Of the Buzzard.-Of a young one taken from its nest on the 10th of June , when supposed to be about a fortnight old , then weighing 5293 grs. , the qiill-feathers of wings only sprouting , the bones generally were very vascular ; the humeri and femora sank in water .
Their ossification was much advanced , but the sternum was still cartilaginous .
After drying , all the bones floated in water .
The humeri and femora , now laid open , were found to contain a red matter lining but not filling the cavities , suggestive of its having been , in its moist state , a fluid or a semifluid .
In this , its dried state , it was of a firm consistence .
After soaking in water and trituration , it formed an emulsion , which , as seen under the microscope , was found to contain oil-globules and particles of different kinds .
Digested and heated in alcohol , it was partially dissolved , the solution becoming turbid on cooling .
Evaporated , and as seen under the microscope , the residue , proportionally small , seemed to consist chiefly of fatty and oily matter ( stearine and olein ?
) , with some needle crystals .
XII .
Of the Blue Tit.---Of a young one taken from the nest on the 31st of May ; then weighing 28-5 grs. , quite naked , except a few delicate fibre-like feathers on the head , some yolk still remaining in the abdominal cavity , the humeri were very small and pale , so small that no attempt was made to examine them , except by crushing .
Comminuted with a few drops of solution of salt , and subjected to the microscope , there were seen mixed with the fragments of cartilage , blood-corpuscles and oil-like globules .
2 .
Of a young one , nearly fully fledged , which on the 3rd of August weighed 142 grs. , the humeri sank in water , maintaining a perpendicular position .
They were completely formed and well ossified .
Excepting towards their inferior extremity they were white , there to a small extent they were red .
The white portion , at least nine-tenths of the entire length , contained air ; the red , not exceeding one-tenth , marrow which , as seen under the microscope , had all the character of medullary tissue and abounded in oil .
3 .
Of a third , shot in the same place as the preceding , and probably of the same brood , which on the 18th of August weighed 179'5 grs. , the humeri floated in water , and were entirely full of air .
The feathers of the abdomen were not fully formed , and the bursa Fabricii was much smaller than that of the preceding .
From these results , may not the following conclusions be drawln ?
First , that at an early stage , and up to a certain period of growth , marrow exists in the bones specified , of all the birds first named ; and that about the time of hatching the medullary tissue abounds less in oil or fatty matter than at a later , the proportion varying in different instances ; least probably in birds of prey , such as the buzzard and owl ; most in birds , the food of which is mostly vegetable , such as the goose .
Secondly , that the substitution of air for marrow in those bones which are eventually hollow , varies as to time in different species ; is earlier in the rook , the crow , the grouse , the tit , than in the common fowl , duck , and goose , especially the latter ; the exchange of one for the other having probably some relation to the time of taking wing and the use of the parts ; and , in accordance , the humeri , except in the instance of the sparrow-hawk , seemed to have the marrow absorbed somewhat-earlier than the femora .
It may be conjectured that , like the residual yolk in the young bird , the marrow in the bones in question may serve in part as food , nourishing in the act of its removal .
Relative to the structure of the hollow bones , I have but a few words to offer .
, In the humeri there is a peculiarity which may be deserving of mention .
Towards the head of the bone , near the pneumatic foramen , the cancellated structure , connected more or less by a delicate membrane , performs the part of a valve , as indicated by its permitting a free access of air in one direction , but preventing in the other , its exit .
This is clearly shown by the use of the blowpipe , and in no instance have I found an exception .
In the humerus of the common fowl , in three instances ( a section of the bone having been made ) the air ias been found to enter from the pneumatic foramen by a small bony canal contiguous to the side of the bone , in length about '6 inch , in diameter about '06 inch * .
It is said that the trabeculae , or minute columnue in the cancellated structure of the hollow bones , are also hollow .
In some of those of the humeri of the adult buzzard I have found a canal , but not in others ; these were solid .
Nor have I found them otherwise than solid in the humerus of the common fowl , goose , and turkey .
As to the bones of those birds of the second kind , in which the marrow is persistent through life , I may briefly remark that in them , as in the former , at an early period the marrow seems to be comparatively poor in oily matter ; and that the earlier , the nearer the embryo state , the less is its degree of consistence , the nearer it is to a liquid , and the larger is the proportion of blood-corpuscles and of albuminous matter , and the smaller the proportion of the adipose .
When mature of growth , the bones of these birds appear to be richer in oily matter than those of the former permanently without air .
Thus the tibia of the one kind in the dried state invariably sinks in water , whilst that of the first kind only partially sinks ; the marrow in drying in the latter , from containing less oil , contracting more , and allowing of the entrance of air .
In the radius and ulna the difference is less strongly marked ; these bones in their dried state commonly sinking in water , even when belonging to birds of the first kind .
As regards the quality of marrow in the bones of different birds , the trials I have made have been very limited .
I am disposed to infer from them that , besides differing , as in many instances it does in colour , it may differ also in composition , in the proportion of adipose matter and its kind , and in the proportion of albuminous matter ; in some , as in the bones of the goose , oil most abounding ; in others , as in those of the rook and buzzard , albuminous matter and fat of the stearine kind .
Even in the bones of birds of the second kind , such as their long bones , there is a difference in this respect ; of these , all that I have examined sink in water , with the exception of the femora , which only partially sink , the marrow in them being less rich in adipose matter , and consequently in drying contracting more , and , as before remarked , admitting more air .
As to the marked difference of birds of the two kinds in relation to the condition of their bones , the rationale is not very obvious .
Perhaps an approximation to the truth , or to the probable , may be made by comparing the bones of birds of the two kinds , which are possessed of similar powers , the swift , for instance , and the buzzard , rivals in swiftness of -fight and enduring power of wing .
How different are their humeri !
of the former , very short , strong , and compact , provided with firm and large processes for the attachment of muscles ; in the latter , long , hollow , ald light , and comparatively brittle , yet sufficiently firm to bear without fracture the muscles which act on them .
Here , have we not after a manner a kind of substitution of qualities ?
great strength and extended surface in small space in the one , for lightness with greater length of leverage in the other .
Further , the one kind of bone , that which contains marrow , being less brittle than that which contains air , and more yielding , may be less liable to fracture ; a quality which , in the bird , before the ossification is complete , may be of essential service ; so that , teleologically considered , it may perhaps serve to account for the bones which are eventtually hollow having primarily marrow in place of air .

