I. " On the Vitality of the Ova of the Salmonidse of different Ages ; in a Letter addressed to CHARLES DARWIN , Esq. , M.A. , V.P.R.S. &amp;c. By JOIIN DAVY , M.D. , F.R.S. Lond. and Edinb .
&amp;c. Received January 15 , 1856 .
MY DEAR SIR , In a letter which I had the honour to address to you last year " On the Ova of the Salmon in relation to the distribution of Species , " I have expressed the hope that some of the results of observations therein described may aid in solving the question as to the period , the age , at which the impregnated ova of fish are most retentive of life , and consequently are in the state best fitted for transport without loss of life .
Joining with you in considering the subject in need of and deserving further inquiry , I have taken the earliest opportunity that has offered of resuming it .
The experiments which I have made , and which I shall now describe , have been more limited than I could have wished , having been confined to the ova of the Char , as I was not able to obtain the ova of the Salmon or any of its congeners in a fit state for the trials required .
The ova of the Char which have been the subject of my experiments , were from living fish brought to me from the river Brathay , a tributary of Windermere , on the 9th of November .
They were obtained by the pressure of the hand on the abdomen of the females under water , and immediately after their expulsion a portion of liquid milt , procured in the same way from a male , was mixed with them for the purpose of impregnation .
The ova thus treated , 654 in number , procured from two fish , were transferred , after little more than an hour , to a shallow glazed earthenware pan , of a circular form , about a foot in diameter , without gravel , the water in which , afterwards , was changed daily once , and once only .
The vessel was kept in a room of a temperature fluctuating from about 55 ?
Fahr. when highest , to about 40 ?
when lowest .
The water used was well-water of considerable purity , and before used it was allowed to acquire the temperature of the room .
Two modes occurred to me as likely to afford the means of testing the vital power of the ova , or their power of endurance without loss of vitality ; viz. one by subjecting them for a limited time to a temperature raised above the ordinary temperature ; the other , by having them conveyed to a considerable distance .
For the trials first proposed , the ova were put into a thin glass vessel half-full of water , which was placed in a water-bath and heated to the temperature desired .
The first experiment was made on ova taken from the general stock one day after their expulsion .
Six , for two hours , were exposed to a temperature varying from 79 ?
to 80 ?
of Fahr. The result was , that they became opaque in the course of twenty-four hours , all but one , and that , some days after , underwent the same change , denoting loss of vitality .
The second experiment was made on the 10th of November .
Six ova were similarly exposed for two hours to a temperature rising gradually from 70 ?
to 78 ?
; the result was similar : on the following day they were all found opaque .
The third experiment was made on the 11th of November .
The same number of eggs were exposed for an hour to a temperature falling from 70 ?
to 69 ? .
Two shortly became opaque ; four retained their transparency during a month , though in reality dead , which was denoted by their bearing no marks of development when seen under the microscope , those ova which retained their vitality being at that time well advanced .
The fourth experiment was made on the 1st of December ; the ova , the same number , were exposed to a temperature rising from 75 ?
to 780 for an hour and twenty-two minutes .
Three became opaque , other three retained their transparency and vitality , and in due time were hatched , the first on the 31st of December , the last on the 7th of January .
The fifth experiment was made on the 13th of December .
Six ova were exposed for an hour and twenty-five minutes to a temperature falling from 82 ?
, which it was at the beginning , to 78 ?
, which it was at the end .
Two became opaque ; in these no marks of progress could be seen of development , thus indicating that they were dead at the time of trial .
Four remained transparent ; in these , under the microscope , embryo-fish were seen with an active circulation of the blood-corpuscles .
One of them was hatched on the 31st of December ; one , the last , on the 6th of January .
The sixth experiment was made on the 20th of December , on six ova , containing living embryos .
They were exposed for an hour and twenty-eight minutes to a temperature of about 98 ?
, and this during the whole time .
When taken out , they had not lost their transparency , but in each the heart 's action was arrested , and death was the result : they all sooner or later became opaque , from the common cause , the imbibition of water .
The seventh experiment was made on the 21st of December , on six ova , in which the circulation was distinct in the foetal fish .
After an exposure for an hour and five minutes to a temperature of 70 ?
rising to 82 ?
, in five , on cooling , the circulation was found active ; in one , stopped , which was dead ; two were hatched on the 5th of January ; three , the remainder , on the 7th of the same month .
The eighth experiment was made on the 23rd of December , on six ova , each containing a living fretus .
They were exposed to a temperature falling from 84 ?
to 82 ?
during an hour and twenty minutes .
Examined after the water had cooled , in one , the circulation was seen pretty distinct ; in two , very feeble ; in three ; the blood-corpuscles appeared to be stagnant .
Examined on the following day , the circulation was seen active in all .
One was hatched on the 5th of January , the other five in the two following days .
The ninth experiment was made on the 24th of December .
Six ova were exposed for two hours and four minutes to a temperature falling from 72 ?
to 70 ? .
Examined a quarter of an hour after , and before the water was cold , the circulation was found vigorous in all .
One was hatched on the 2nd of January , the remainder between the 5th and 8th .
The tenth experiment , and the last of its kind that I have to describe , was made on the 2nd of January .
Six ova , in each of which D the circulation was distinct , were exposed for four hours to 'a temperature varying from 70 ?
to 72 ?
the greater part of the time 72 ? .
Examined immediately on being taken out , the circulation was seen uninterrupted in three , arrested in the other three .
In three-quarters of an hour , when the water had cooled nearly to the temperature of the room , 55 ?
, the circulation was found to be renewed in the latter .
In the interval , one of the former was hatched , and a vigorous fish produced ; on the following morning four more had come forth , and in the one remaining egg the foetal circulation was vigorous ; it was hatched on the 4th of January .
I beg now to pass to the other series of experiments referred to , those in which trial of the vitality of the ova was made by sending them to a distance .
The method was briefly the following .
The ova were lightly packed in wet wool contained in a tin-plate box perforated in its bottom to admit air , and covered with a wooden cover that had been soaked in water , with the intent of preserving moisture .
The box was wrapped in tow , loosely covered with oiled paper , and the whole , in an envelope of common writing-paper , was well secured by a binding of thread .
Thus prepared , the ova were sent by post to Penzance , in Cornwall , a distance exceeding 500 miles , with the request that they should be sent back by return of post unopened .
The first experiment was made on the 9th of November .
The number of ova sent was thirty , taken from the common stock without selection .
They were received on their return on the 14th of the same month .
On taking them out , all were found transparent ; but , with the exception of one , all became opaque on being put into water , and that one , after a few days , also underwent the same change .
The second experiment was made on the 14th of November .
Twenty ova then sent were returned on the 18th .
All became opaque on being put into water .
The third experiment was made on the 1st of December .
Twenty ova then sent were returned on the 5th .
Put into water , eleven became opaque within a minute ; most of these were slightly shrivelled .
After three hours , two more became opaque .
After forty-eight hours , four only remained transparent ; in these , under the microscope , the circulation was found active in two ; in the other two it could not be detected .
One was hatched on the 31st of December , the other died before hatching .
The fourth experiment was made on the 13tll of December .
Twenty-two ova then sent came back on the 17th .
During the interval there was a severe frost ; the thermometer here in the open air was constantly below the freezing-point , and it would appear to have been much the same throughout England .
When examined , eleven of the ova immediately became opaque on immersion in water .
In the other eleven there was no loss of transparency , and in these , under the microscope , the circulation was .
found active .
Those which had become opaque were placed in a pretty strong solution of common salt , by which their transparency was restored , the saline solution dissolving the coagulum .
Now examined , no traces of development could be detected under the microscope in any one of them , -showing that they had been dead before they were sent away .
On the following day , the 18th of December , the eleven transparent ova were repacked , and again sent the same distance .
They came back on the 22nd ; they retained then their transparency ; placed in water , a feeble circulation was to be seen in two under the microscope ; in nine the blood-corpuscles had ceased to flow ; these became opaque .
Of the two in which the circulation was perceptible , one was hatched on the 28th of December ; the young fish in the other died , it would appear , in the act of breaking the membrane , its head , on the 29th , having been found protruding , but the heart 's action stopped .
The fifth experiment was made on the 26th of December .
Ten ova , in which the circulation was active , and the foetus in each well advanced , were sent off on the day mentioned , and returned on the 31st .
The weather , during the whole time , was mild , the frost having ceased .
When opened , the ova were all found hatched , and the young fish dead , as might have been expected .
When put into water , not one of them showed any signs of remaining vitality ; they were all examined under the microscope .
The sixth and last experiment was made on the 6th of January .
Six ova , in each of which the circulation was vigorous , were put into a glass tube of one cubic inch and a half capacity , with water to the height of about 1 .
4 cubic inch , the remaining space , after closure by a cork , being filled with air .
The intention was to try the effects of conveyance to a distance on these ova in water with a small quantity of air .
Owing to a mistake , they were not forwarded .
Examined on the following day , five ova were found hatched , the young fish dead ; in the one ovum remaining unhatched , the foetus was alive , the circulation active ; on the 9th it burst its shell ; the young fish was vigorous .
As I could not with any certainty determine , at the time the experiments were commenced , what eggs were impregnated and alive , and what were not , I had at the beginning thirty ova taken indiscriminately from the common stock , and put apart in a glass vessel , the water in which was also changed daily .
Of this number , seven were found in progress of development on the 14th of December , or 23 per cent. ; the rest had become opaque .
One of the seven was hatched on the 31st of December , the others in succession , the last on the 8th of January .
Further to arrive at a proximate average of the proportion of impregnated and unimpregnated ova , or living and dead , on the 14th of December , when in the living ova the circulation was distinct under the microscope , and the embryos were visible even to the unaided eye , I examined the whole number then remaining , viz. 405 , thus reduced , owing to 67 having been removed , one after another having become opaque , and-52 having been taken out for the purpose of experiments .
Of these 405 remaining , 138 were found alive , each containing a well-formed embryo , and 267 , though still transparent , without life , no marks of organization being to be seen in them , either with the naked eye or under the microscope .
H1ence , irrespective of the 152 experimented on , the proportion of living to dead on the 14th of December would appear to be as 138 to 364 , or about 25 per cent. And , with the exception of two which died after the 14th , all those then alive were hatched , the first on the 31st of the same month , the last on the 9th of January , What are the conclusions to be drawn from these results ?
From those of the first series of experiments , may it not be considered as proved that the power of resisting an undue increase of temperature is possessed in a higher degree by the ova in an advanced than in an early stage of development , the degree probably being in the ratio of the age ?
From those of the second series , is it not as manifest that the power of bearing distant transport , and of retaining life in moist air , is in like degree increasing with age ?
And from both , may not the general conclusion be drawn , that the strength of vitality of the impregnated ovum , or its power of resisting agencies unfavourable to its life , gradually increases with age and the progress of foetal development ?
And as the Char is one of the most delicate of the family of fishes to which it belongs , may it not further be inferred , with tolerable confidence , that the ova of the other and more hardy species of the Salmonide , were they similarly experimented upon , would afford like results , confirmatory of those obtained last year in some trials on the ova of the Salmon , and mentioned in my former letter to you ?
The practical application of these results , and of the conclusions deducible from them , is obvious , and need not at present be dwelt upon .
1 am , my dear Sir , Yours very truly , JOHN DAVY .
Lesketh fow , Ambleside , January 10 , 1856 .

