XI .
" Products of the Destructive Distillation of the Sulphobenzolates .
No. I. " By JOHN STENHOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received June 14 , 1865 .
Preparation of Sulphobenzolic Acid .
Purification of the Benzol .
As most specimens of benzol met with in commerce , even when rectified , contain impurities besides toluol and the other homologues of benzol , I have generally found it necessary to submit it to purification before using it for the preparation of sulphobenzolic acid .
The commercial article boiling between 800 and 90 ?
C. , was mixed with about one-twentieth of its bulk of concentrated sulphuric acid , and digested for eight or ten hours in a flask furnished with a long condensing-tube .
By this means a considerable amount of the impurities contained in the crude benzol were converted by the acid into a black gelatinous mass similar in appearance to that obtained in the preparation of olefiant gas , a large quantity of sulphurous acid gas was given off , and the impure benzol acquired a reddishbrown or dark purple colour .
It was separated from the black mass , washed with a small quantity of water , and again heated once or twice with concentrated acid , but for a shorter time than at first , until fresh acid when heated with it ceased to become dark-coloured .
In this operation the benzol loses from 10 to 20 per cent. , according to the amount of impurity present , and small quantities of sulphobenzolic acid are produced .
Conversion of Benzol into crude Sulphobenzolic Acid .
This acid may be prepared by the process given by Mitscherlich , which consists in adding benzol to fuming oil of vitriol contained in a flask , as long as it dissolves , with agitation and frequent cooling .
Notwithstanding 351 Mitscherlich 's statement* that he has " succeeded as little as Faraday in combining benzol with ordinary strong sulphuric acid , " I have found it advisable , when large quantities of sulphobenzolic acid are required , to treat the purified benzol with ordinary commercial acid .
Concentrated sulphuric acid and purified benzol , in the proportion of about four measures of the former to five of the latter , were placed together in a flask furnished -with a long condensing-tube , and heated on a sand-bath for eight or ten hours .
The flask in which the digestion is performed should be very large in proportion to the quantity of benzol employed , so that an extensive surface is exposed to the action of the acid l1 .
Splphobenzolates .
The crude sulphobenzolic acid obtained by either of the above methods was separated from the uncombined benzol , and a quantity of water , about twenty times the bulk of the sulphuric acid originally employed , was added to it .
This solution , which has a small quantity of sulphobenzene , C2 HItP SOs , suspended in it , was heated to the boiling-point , neutralized with chalk , diluted with ten parts more water , and after being boiled for a few minutes , was filtered from the sulphate of calcium .
The clear and slightly coloured filtrate is a solution of suitphobenzolate of calciuzm , Ca C0 H11 S03 , from which the salt may be obtained by sufficient concentration .
Sullhobenzolale of bariltu may likewise be prepared in a similar manner to the calcium salt , substituting carbonate of barium for chalk .
The sulIJhobenzolates of the al/ ka(line metals are readily obtained by precipitating the solition of the calcium salt by the carbonate of the desired metal , and evaporating the solution .
By this process purified benzol yielded nearly twice its weight of sulphobenzolate of sodium .
The sulphobenzolates of copper , zinc , &amp;c. , are best prepared by precipitating the .
solution of the barium compound by solutions of their sulphate .
The copper salt is usually described in handbooks , on Mitscherlich 's authority , as forming fine large crystals .
I have only been able to obtain it , whether from water or spirit , in very small crystals , which are exceedingly soluble .
Decomposition of Sulphobenzolate of Soclium .
The sodium-salt , after being reduced to powder and thoroughly dried , was introduced into a copper flask furnished with a bent tube , and submitted to destructive distillation , when an oily body covered with a layer of water condensed in the receiver , and a considerable quantity of carbonic and some sulphurous acid gas were evolved , carbonaceous matter and carbonlate of sodium remaining in the retort .
In order that the operation may proceed rapidly , and in the most advantageous manner , the quantity of sub* Pogg .
xxxi .
p. 284 .
tA similar process has been employed by Gerhardt and Chancel in the preparation of sulphite of chlorobenzene , Count .
Rend .
vol. xxxv .
p. ( ; 90 .
I Gmelin 's Handbook , vol. xi .
p. 156 ; Gerhardt , vol. iii .
p. 72 .
[ June 15 , 35 stance introduced into the retort should not exceed 25 to 30 grammes at each distillation .
Florence flasks can be used ; but , owing to their bad conducting-power and the high boiling-point of the oil , the result is not so favourable .
When the distillation is properly conducted in a copper retort , the dried sodiumsalt yields from one-fourth to one-fifth of its weight of crude oil .
The crude oil was separated from the supernatant layer of water , and distilled in a retort furnished with a thermometer .
It began to boil at 80 ?
C. , and then rose slowly to 1 l10 C. , the distillate between these ternperatures consisting of a small quantity of water and benzol .
When the water had all passed over , the boiling-point rose veryrapidly to 290 ?
C. , at which temperature the greater portion of the liquid distilled over , leaving a black tarry residue in the retort .
This black residue , when more strongly heated , gave a further quantity of an oily body , which , when rectified , first yielded the substance boiling at about 290 ?
C. , and above 300 ?
C. a liquid which on standing some weeks deposited a small quantity of crystals .
The quantity boiling between 290 ?
and 300 ?
C. was about two-thirds the weight of the crude oil .
The rectified oil between 290 ?
and 300 ?
C. was again distilled , when nearly the whole of it came over at 292 ?
'5 C. , the boiling-point being remarkably constant .
After another rectification in a current of hydrogen , it was subjected to analysis the carbon and hydrogen being determined by combustion with oxide of copper and a current of oxygen , and the sulphur by ignition with carbonate of sodium and oxide of mercury .
I. -603 gri .
oil gave 1'708 grmi .
CO , and -292 grm. 2 , O. II..595 grin .
oil gave 1:679 grm. CO2 and '288 grm. H2 0 .
III .
'237 grm. oil gave '302 grm. sulphate of barium .
IV .
'275 grm. oil gave '354 grm. sulphate of barium .
Theory .
I. II .
III .
IV .
Mean .
C,2=144 77-41 77 25 7698 ... .
77-12 Hlo= 10 5-38 5-38 5-38 ... .
5-38 S= 32 17-20 ... 17 48 17-51 17-49 186 99-99 The formula C2 H1-10 S , deducible from these analyses , is that of sulphide of phenyl , or a body isomeric with it .
When pure it is nearly colourless , having only a very faint yellow tinge , and an aromatic but slightly alliaceous odour .
It has a high refractive power , sp. gr. 1119 , and boils at 2920 ?
5 .
It is insoluble in water , very soluble in hot spirit , from which it partially separates on cooling , and is miscible in all proportions with ether , bisulphide of carbon , and benzol .
Its alcoholic solution , when mixed with bichloride of platinum , gives a slight flocculent precipitate , which on standing resolves itself into a reddish-coloured oil , Nitrate of silver and chloride of mercury give no precipitate .
When the oil was treated with sulphuric acid , it dissolved in small quantity , forming a red solution , which , on the application of a gentle heat , changed to a fine purple colour ; this disappeared on raising the temperature , the whole of the oil dissolved , and a solution was obtained of a faint greenish-black tinge .
When this solution was largely diluted with water it became nearly colourless , and on neutralization with chalk yielded ( besides the sulphate ) an organic calcium-salt , very soluble in water .
The solution of the oil in sulphuric acid , when very strongly heated , blackened and gave off sulphurous acid gas .
Solutions of the alkalies , whether aqueous or alcoholic , appear to have no action on the oil ; but when heated with solid potash , it was decomposed with the production of compounds I am at present investigating .
Action of oxidizing Agents on Sulphide of Phenyl.-Sulphobenzolene .
-When the oil C12 HI S was brought into contact with strong nitric acid , a very violent action ensued , accompanied by the copious evolution of nitrous fumes .
The mixture was then boiled for an hour or two with occasional addition of fresh nitric acid , and the solution thus obtained poured into a large quantity of water , when a crystalline mass of a pale yellow colour was precipitated .
This , when perfectly dried , was reduced to powder and washed with ether to remove a small quantity of adhering oil , and the partially purified product was recrystallized once or twice from benzol , and then several times from spirit , collecting apart the first portions which separate .
By this means a substance in beautiful oblique prismatic crystals was obtained in a state of perfect purity , whilst in the mother-liquors there remained a large quantity of the same body mixed with a second substance crystallizing in long needles , which , however , formed but an inconsiderable portion of the whole .
Although this is the method by which I first prepared the above described substance crystallizing in oblique prisms , I have since employed a process which yields it with greater facility and in a much purer state .
Ten parts by weight of water , five of concentrated sulphuric acid , and two of sulphide of phenyl , were placed in a flask furnished with a long condensingtube , and to the mixture , kept boiling , three parts of acid chrornate of potassium were added in small portions at a time .
The digestion continued for twenty or thirty minutes , and the mixture was then allowed to cool .
The green liquid was poured off from the cake of crystals , which , after boiling with water to free it from sulphuric acid , was dried .
The nearly pure substance was then crystallized , cnce from benzol and once from alcohol , when it formed brilliant crystals which were perfectly pure .
A trace of the second substance previously mentioned , crystallizing in long needles , was found in the benzol mother-liquors .
By this last process , which is greatly preferable to the nitric acid one , the rectified oil yielded its own weight of crystals .
I. -338 grm. crystals gave -820 grm. CO2 and '144 grm. H2 0 .
II .
'346 grm. crystals gave *834 grm. CO , and 144 grm. H1 O. 354 [ June 15 , III .
-349 grm. crystals gave -844 grm. CO2 and -156 grm. 1120 .
IV .
*241 grm. crystals gave '259 grm. sulphate of barium .
V. '362 grm. crystals gave *385 grm. sulphate of barium .
VI .
*270 grm. crystals gave '293 grm. sulphate of barium .
Theory .
I. II .
III .
IV .
V. VI .
C,2=144 66-06 66-18 65-75 65-97 H10= 10 4-59 4-73 4-62 4-96 S= 32 14-68 ... .
14-74 14'59 14'89 02 = 32 1468 ... .
218 100'0l This substance was analyzed in the same manner as the sulphide of phenyl , -Nos .
III .
, IV .
, V. being prepared by the nitric acid process , and Nos. I. , II .
, VI .
by oxidation with acid chromate of potassium and sulphuric acid .
The analysis of this substance leads to the formula C12 H , , SO2 , which is the same as that of the sulphobenzene of Mitscherlich .
It differs greatly from that body , however , both in its chemical and physical properties .
I shall therefore provisionally call it sulphobenzolene .
It forms oblique prisms , which are often of large size when prepared by crystallization out of benzol , in which it is rather soluble .
The crystals obtained by both the processes above described were kindly measured for me by my friend Charles Brooke , Esq. , F.R.S. , who states they " are of the same form , the measurements corresponding exactly .
They belong to the oblique prismatic system .
The measurements must be considered as only approximative , the surfaces of the crystals being imperfect .
" No planes have been observed to determine the symbol a of the plane lal .
010 on 001 or 100 ... ... 94 30 / Y ozo ss A 010 100 ... .
85 30 |/ X )\ 010 lal ... ... 108 20 No\Xt / ^ 001 100 ... ... 110 20 It is very soluble in hot spirit , from which it separates on cooling in a manner closely resembling the crystallization of chlorate of potassium .
It is also soluble in ether , bisulphide of carbon , and slightly in boiling water , crystallizing out completely on cooling .
It melts at 126 ?
C. , and distils at a much higher temperature .
Sulphobenzolene dissolves readily in concentrated sulphuric acid , and is not decomposed even when the solution is heated to the boiling-point .
Water precipitates the substance unchanged .
Aqueous solutions of the alkalies appear to have no action on the crystals ; but when they are heated with solid potash a powerful reaction takes place , with the production of new compounds .
When sulphobenzolene is digested for some time with a mixture of concentrated nitric and sulphuric acids , it dissolves , and red fumes are evolved .
If a large quantity of water be now added to the mixture , a copious precipitate is obtained , difficultly soluble in hot alcohol , from which it crystallizes in minute needles .
Decomposition of Sulphobenzolate of Calcium .
When this salt was distilled in the manner described for the sodium compound , it underwent a similar decomposition-water and oil collecting in the receiver , and carbonic and sulphurous acids being evolved .
In this instance , however , a very high temperature was required , and the quantity of oil obtained was much smaller than from the sodium-salt , being only about one-sixteenth the weight of the dry sulphobenzolate of calcium employed .
The crude oil , when rectified , commenced to boil at 80 ?
C. , between which and 110 ?
C. small quantities of water and benzol came over .
The boiling-point then rose rapidly to 280 ?
C. , between which temperature and 300 ?
C. about one-fifth of the original quantity of oil came over .
Above 300 ?
C. the distillate obtained became almost solid on cooling , consisting apparently of the same crystalline body of which a small quantity only was obtained in the rectification of the crude oil from the sodium-salt .
The portion distilling between 280 ?
and 300 ?
C. , when submitted to the action of sulphuric acid and acid chromate of potassium , yielded a crystalline cake , which , after washing , was dissolved in hot benzol ; on cooling , a few oblique prismatic crystals of sulphobenzolene were obtained , and likewise a large quantity of the needle-formed crystals , probably held dissolved in the oil previously to its being oxidized .
These I am at present examining .
Decomposition of Sulphobenzolat ofof Ammonium .
This salt , which melts at about 200 ?
C. , is decomposed with great facility , and at a comparatively low temperature , yielding large quantities of bisulphite of ammonium and benzol , with some undecomposed sulphobenzolate of ammonium , and likewise a very small quantity of a crystalline substance slightly soluble in cold water , the only residue in the retort being a little carbonaceous matter .
On rectifying the benzol obtained in this decomposition , a small quantity of a heavy oil was obtained , having a high boilingpoint , and which deposited crystals on cooling .
When oxidized , sulphobenzolene seems to be formed in small quantity .
Sulphobenzolamide .
The crystalline substance which occurs in small quantity , amounting to about one and a half per cent. , among the products of the destructive dis356 [ June 15 , tillation of sulphobenzolate of ammonium , is washed with cold water to free it from the ammonium salts with which it is accompanied , dissolved in boiling water , and filtered to separate it from adhering traces of oil .
On the cooling of this solution , the impure sulphobenzolamide is deposited in large micaceous scales .
By one or two crystallizations out of spirit , and one from boiling water , it is obtained perfectly pure and white .
I. '350 grm. gave '590 grm. CO , and *144 grm. H20 .
II .
-442 grm. gave -740 grm. CO and -182 grm. H O. III .
'343 grm. gave '219 grm. platinum .
IV .
'237 grm. gave '148 grm. platinum .
V. '252 grm. gave '376 grm. sulphate of barium .
VI .
'432 grm. gave *645 grm. sulphate of barium .
VII . ?
124 grn. gave ?
186 grm , sulphate of barium .
Theory .
I. II .
III .
IV .
V. VI .
VII .
Mean .
C =72 45-85 45-98 45-66 ... ... , ... 4582 117= 7 446 457 457 ... ... ... .
457 N =14 892 ... .
903 884 ... ... 8-93 S =32 20 38 ... ... 2046 20-48 20-58 20-51 2 =32 20-38 ... ... ... . .
20-17 157 99-99 100-00 These analyses correspond to the formula C , H , NSO2 , which is that of sulphobenzolamide , equivalent to sulphobenzolate of ammonium minus one atom of water , 6 H5 SO3-H2 0=C 11 NSO .
Sulphobenzolamide crystallizes in large and very lustrous micaceous scales , greatly resembling naphthalin in appearance .
It fuses at 153 ?
C. , and recrystallizes on cooling ; when more highly heated , it volatilizes .
It is extremely difficult to reduce the dry crystals to powder , owing to their toughness .
When boiled with a strong solution of potash it gives off ammonia , sulphobenzolate of potassium being apparently , formed at the same time .
Weak acids have little or no action on it .
The analyses were made for me by my assistant , Mr. C. E. Groves .
XII .
" An Account of the Base-observations made at Kew Observatory with the Pendulums to be used in the Indian Trigonometrical Survey .
" By BALFOUR STEWART , F.R.S. , and B. LOEWY , Esq. Received June 15 , 1865 .
[ This Paper will be published in a subsequent Number .
]

