IV .
" Notices of the Physical Aspect of the Sun .
" By JOHN PHILLIPS , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received January 13 , 1865 .
PART I. Frequently , during many years , the peculiarities of the physical aspect of the sun have arrested my attention , and induced me often to sketch and sometimes to measure ; but until Mr. Cooke furnished me with the accurate and convenient equatorial which I now employ , there seemed little hope of my being able to draw correctly or observe systematically .
During some late occasions I have endeavoured to obtain trustworthy representations not only of some of the darker tracts , denominated " spots , " and the brighter parts which are near them , called " faculhe , " but also of the general uneven groundwork of the sun 's disk .
In tracing the path of a " spot " across the disk of the sun , I employ a Kellner ( positive ) eyepiece of about 50 linear , on which are engraved five transit-lines , at intervals of about ?
T ' of the sun 's diameter , and therefore , near the centre of the disk , about equal to 10 ? .
Having , with this eyepiece applied to the diagonal sun-glass , and the clock movement , determined the position of the spots , I replace the Kellner by ordinary ( negative ) eyepieces , whose powers range from 75 to 300 , the latter being seldom beneficial except for objects near the limb , and in very favourable weather-which , in my experience , means a partially clouded sky , westerly winds , and morning hours by preference .
Some of the clearest views which I have experienced were had in the intervals of storms and snow-clouds the slowly drifting snow-flakes of those clouds being visible as dark spots in the field of view , when the eyepiece was adjusted to their very moderate distance* .
I present a diagramt showing the appearance of the sun 's disk on the 29th of March , 1864 , and other sketches of the bright and shady parts of the surface .
From the variations in the appearance of the spots , faculee , and ground surface , many suggestions arise ; but I limit myself on this occasion to some inferences which appear justified by the observations of the least variable of them .
So great is the diversity in the short history of these ephemeral phenomena , that no view of their origin and progress can be held to be so well established at present as to exclude the consideration of other speculations .
Faculae.-Near the edge of the solar disk , and especially about spots approaching the edge , it is quite easy , even with a small telescope , to discern certain very bright streaks of diversified form , quite distinct in outline , and either entirely separate , or coalescing in various ways into ridges and network .
When , near the limb , the spots become invisible , the undulated shining ridges and folds to which I refer still indicate their placebeing more remarkable thereabout than elsewhere on the limb , though everywhere traceable in good observing-weather * ( see Plate III .
) .
Faculm are the most brilliant parts of the sun ; they appear of all magnitudes , from barely discernible softly gleaming narrow tracts 1000 miles long to continuous complicated and heapy ridges 40,000 miles and more in length , and 1000 to 4000 miles broad .
By the frequent meeting of the bright ridges , spaces of the sun 's surface are included of various magnitudes and forms , somewhat corresponding to the areas and forms of the irregular spots with penumbrae .
They are never regularly arched , and never formed in straight bands , but always devious and minutely undulated , like clouds in the evening sky , or irregular ranges of snowy mountains .
When carefully studied with powers of 75 , 135 , and 180 , which are very effective , the ridges appear prominent into cusps , and depressed into hollows ; the cusps having brighter and more shady sides , so , as not to be unlike some forms of branching crystallized native silver .
Ridges of this kind often surround a spot , which appears the more conspicuous from the surrounding brightness ; but sometimes there appears a very broad white platform round the spot , and from this the white crumpled ridges pass in various directions ( see Diagram , October 16 , 1862 , No. 2 ) .
Toward the limb the ridges appear parallel to it ; further from it , this character is exchanged for indeterminate direction and lessened distinctness ; over the remainder of the surface they are much less conspicuous , but can certainly be traced as an irregular network , more or less disguised by the minuter structure which has been described as porosity .
I present selected sketches of the appearances mentioned .
In considering the faculae with attention , I remark that they preserve their shapes and positions with no material change during a few hours of observation , and probably for much longer periods , since after rotation through 1 5 ?
the main features appear much the same as before .
The faculse look like half-shaded snowy mountains and like half-illuxminated clouds , and one might suppose that in either of these cases their elevated parts should project beyond the general circular outline .
This I have never seen to happen ; and if a little attention be given to proportions , it will appear very unlikely to be often observed .
If the breadth of one of the ridges be taken at 4000 miles , its average slope 30 ?
, and its height at a quarter of the breadth , viz. 1000 miles , this , if projected beyond the circular disk , would no doubt be discernible , for it would be equal to --Luth of the sun 's diameter , or above 2"t .
But the number of the ridges is so great , and the crowding of them very near and on the limb so close , that it is hardly possible , on the average , for any ridge to be seen much above its fellows , whether the faculm be in the atmosphere or in the body of the sun .
The continuous circularity of the sun 's limb is therefore no sufficient argument in itself against the faculm being much raised above the general surface ; and it seems worth while to make special researches as to the manner in which facula come on and go off , in the hope of finding some case which shall be decisive .
General Ground .
In examining the interspaces between the faculse in the parts towards the limb , it is not easy to see more on the surface thus inclined to the visual ray than a certain unevenness of tint ; under a higlier angle of incidence , toward the interior of the disk , this ground acquires more evident partial shades and lights-a sort of granulation difficult to analyze , especially if , as is most frequent , the edge of the sun shakes with varying refraction .
If all be quite steady , however , the eye discerns both the ramifications of faculm and the granulation of the interspaces , and by degrees acquires the power of seeing this easily and clearly .
Under this condition , the perpetual motion and inconstant agitation , so often described , by no means appears to be a characteristic phenomenon , but rather as an exceptional trouble to the observer , arising from inconstant refraction , fatigue of the eye , or shake of the instrument .
These difficulties increase rapidly with high powers ; but with a power of 100 , and good weather , the sun 's face does not appear to be much obscured by this kind of intestine agitation .
What is seen appears in the diagram for April 2 , 1864 , as well as I can represent a structure so minute and perplexing .
The ground of the whole is a surface of complicated small lights and shades , the limits of which appear arched or straight or confused according to the case ; and the indeterminate union of these produces sometimes faint lumirnous ridges , the intervals filled up by shaded interstices and insulated patches of illuminated surface .
One eminent observer* , seeing these under a high power , has compared them to willow leaves , unarranged except where they conform in some degree to the great features of the spots .
Using the same kind of analogy , one might say they seem to resemble any somewhat uneven surface composed of separate masses , presenting themselves in all directions and at different levels .
Being of all shapes , they must generally have one transverse measure greater than the other , and tlus appear for the most part oblong , but with no systematic concurrence of direction .
The comparison used by another astronomer* , of an irregularly heaped surface of rice , here collected into ridges , there sunk into depressions which seem to be occasionally deepened into pits , has its advantages .
But upon the whole I prefer to be content with the less definite analogy to an irregular granulated and pitted surface , composed of small prominent lights complicated with intermediate shades of different intensities .
PART II.-Details of Spots .
In the midst of the general ground thus described , spots make their appearance , grow , change , and decay under the observer 's eyes .
Seldom indeed , as once to Mr. Carrington , does it happen that a spot appears suddenly ; its growth , change , and decay are all usually slow-too slow to be positively noted and measured except at intervals of hours and days .
We notice occasionally spots of minute size which have no surrounding penumbra ; these may be either very black or only dark .
These often occur in considerable numbers near a large spot well enclosed by penumbra , as in spot No. 2 , 29th March ( Drawing No. 7 ) .
On the 30th of March one of these had acquired a slight penumbra , several of the others had disappeared .
The several small spots represented ( Diagr .
No. 6 ) amidst a mottled surface of faculae and granulations had no penumbra ; one was dark , but not black .
Some of the spots here referred to appear to be less than 500 miles across , and many are less than 1000 .
They are occasionally in twins , and not unfrequently disposed in groups which may eventuate in a spot , or in a long sinuous tract having some relation of origin to greater spots near them .
The greater spots with large penumbral regions have usually very irregular boundaries , and equally irregular black nuclei .
In them it is quite usual to perceive two , three , or more nuclei ; but in such cases the term nucleus is but little fitted to describe these often narrow winding and branching spots which appear within the irregular space .
The boundaries of that space are in a certain degree conformed to the black nuclei .
Many large spots of this kind undergo very considerable changes in the course of one day .
A complicated spot which measured about 20,000 miles across on the 29th of March , lost its penumbra and was reduced to separate nuclei on the 31st ; while a curved collection of small dots near it was concentrated to a small group , and two other obscure dots expanded a little and became three .
In this state , with but slight further change , they all passed across 60 ?
of arc .
In complete contrast with these examples is the spot No. 4 [ in the diagram of March 29 ] , which with very little observable change in itself , and with no additional productions near it , has been traced across the sun 's disk through a third of the circumference .
I present drawings of this spot as it appeared with powers of 75 and 135 , for the purpose of marking the unusual persistency of its characters , and describing its relations to the surrounding tracts of the sun 's surface .
It will be observed that the nucleus is black , not quite uniformly so , however , but with some inequality of tint ; and that it is branched or notched at the edges , in this respect exhibiting some differences at different dates , which I do not think are due to any error or uncertainty in the sketches .
The ring space round the spot , though not quite uniform , presented no inequalities that I could mark ; the border was grey , striated , and unevenly extended into the surrounding tracts .
These unevennesses appeared to me to be little varied , during several days .
The striations and extensions in a radiating direction correspond to what Mr. Dawes calls by the picturesque name of " thatch"-a name singularly appropriate , if this border overhangs , as is often supposed , a cavity or depression .
This " thatch , " according to Mr. Nasmyth , is formed by the concurrent outlines of his " willow leaves " ; but Professor Airy , in commenting on Mr. Stone 's recent communication to the Royal Astronomical Society , is reported to have called attention to the fact that the ricelike aggregations were " 'quite distinct from the thatching so graphically described by Mir .
Dawes in the penumbre " * .
Until the opportunity shall have occurred to me of observing and drawing the edges of penumbrre and nuclei under a sufficient variety of circumstances , I must not offer to reconcile these apparently different opinions ; at present my impression is that the " thatched " edges of the penumbra are only broken parts of the general groundwork of the body of the sun ; which may be , or rather must be supposed to be very unequally luminous in different parts , the depressed and granulated parts emitting the least light .
The spot No.4 on the Diagram for March 29 was first seen near the edge of the sun , surrounded by faculhe of great brilliancy t. This spot had the elliptical outline due to its position ; the black nucleus was central ; the border was shaded and striated ; between the border and the nucleus was a clear bright space , not then appearing grey or dusky .
As the spot moved on toward the central part of the disk , the oval became less and less eccentric ; the nucleus remained central , and the border retained its dusky and striated aspect ; but the ring round the nucleus lost its brightness , and took up more of the grey tint which belongs to the general surface of the sun when a very dark glass is employed $ .
If these circumstances be well considered , they appear sufficient to prove that the spot taken as a whole is not sunk very much below , or raised very much above , the general level of the region .
For were its interior part sunk very much below the border , it would have presented to the eye in passing from near the edge toward the centre the appearances sketched in the annexed diagram , not those which really occurred , as shown in the diagram already referred to .
If we regard the spot as marking all opening in a bright photosphere , through which the dark body of the sun is seen within a terraced penumbra , as represented in the diagram of Sir J. Herschel ( here copied ) , it is obvious that toward the edge of the sun , when the line of sight , E c , forms a very small angle with the surface of the sun , one side of the supposed terrace b will become invisible if the intervals of height between b and a be very considerable , and in the same way a part or the whole of c will be lost .
The photosphere of the sun , then , if it exist , appears not to have the enormous depth sometimes ascribed to it ; or if we suppose the spot , with its ring and border , to be a terraced concavity in the solid globe of the sun as under , with very steep sides , and breadths , a=l , 6=2 , c=3 , the whole S -s 1 c. ' from a to a ' being 13,500 miles , it will be obvious that the difference of the levels of a and b cannot have so great a proportion to the sun 's diameter as the crater-walls of the moon bear to the diameter of that satellite , or else cannot have anything like their steepness .
The moon 's crater-walls are in height -o , oor even ToLO th of the diameter , and often very steep .
On the sun the same proportion would give cliffs 400 or 800 miles high , and with the spot in a position 60 ?
from the centre of the sun , such cliffs would on one side conceal half or more of one side of the terrace ( b ) , while the other side ( b ' ) of the terrace remained entirely visible .
If we suppose that a is not a steep cliff but a prolonged slope , so that even toward the edge of the sun the whole of the interior area may be seen , the limit of the difference of level between the general surface ( s ) and the interior terrace ( b b ' ) can be calculated .
For example , In former observations of remarkable spots ( 1862 ) , and again in 1863 In former observatinOutlines of Astronomy ( Ed. 1833 ) , and again in 163 * Outlines of Astronomy ( Ed. 1833 ) , pl , 3 .
d. 51 and 1864 , I have several times noticed this persistence of the elliptically contracted spot with its nucleus , equidistant from the borders , very near to the edge , both coming on and going off , certainly within 10 ?
of the edge , from which it may be inferred that in that case the angle of inclination of the edge of the spot to the general surface could not be greater than 10 ? .
Taking the case of 10 ?
, and applying it to the spot now under consideration , the difference of level in miles between s , the general solar surface , and b , the ring terrace , might =a sin 10 ?
=300 miles , but could not exceed it .
This result is represented in the preceding diagram .
Nor can the spot be sunk in a deep saucer-shaped concavity like for the same reasons .
But , however deeply the spot may be sunk below the surface of the sun , no notch could appear in consequence of that at the limit of the sun ; for before reaching the limb the angle aE a ' , under which it is seen from the earth ( E ) , would become invisibly small , and the space a--a ' become invisible .
' Even if the sides a and at were very unequal in level , the leading edge at being depressed , this would make no visible notch on the limb of the sun , except the spot were enormously large , as well as very deepmuch greater for instance than 40,000 miles .
Except in very rare cases , then , the sun 's edge must always appear truly circular , notwithstanding the depressions of the spots and the elevations of the faculue .
Finally , I remark that the spots may appear black , dark , grey , &amp;c. , not because they really are so dark as they seem , but that , being less luminous than other parts of the disk , they acquire this relative darkness under the operation of the optical apparatus , and the influence of contrast on the sensation .
An extremely good way of viewing the spots is to project the sun 's image on to a smooth porcelain screen , about a foot or 18 inches in diameter ; very smooth white paper answers very well .
Thus tried , every imaginable degree of relative darkness appears in the spots , and the faculae come out bright and distinct .
In this experiment , the spots seem so dark in the nuclei as to suggest the hypothesis that the parts of the sun to which they correspond really emit specially heat-rays , below the range of refrangibility which brings to our eyes light and the power of sight .
Heatrays and light-rays come to the earth together , but that is no reason for thinking they must spring in mixed pencils from every part of the sun equally .
In my way of considering it , this rather confirms the idea of the deep black nuclei being the sun 's body , the penumbrae that body partially seen through the atmosphere , and the facular region transmitting to us rays which have acquired a higher refrangibility than that with which they started , by a peculiar change in the sun 's atmosphere , which may justly be called his photosphere .
5 ?
aroc .
]%y ?
OC .
Th7i~~ 7ifW-JiZ~C ; ccteJf 360 Z7O 1 90 0 270 90 RA60 30 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0EQAO av~w EQUATOR 0f:X EQUAlOR 2 " , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i rg , ~~~~~~~~~~~-i 7t~~~~~~~~~~~ 6 ?
L 60.-- ; --- ? ? ? ? ?
; _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60 3kO 70 180 7o o 'MAPL S. 1862,..186o4 .
-Sq.a J,76G , twru A7 7 , Pf0essr P7V'aUs .
Proc. .
Die ?
V SOC .
yo i.Y.PiT &amp; HL IV 4r-i i , I89643l/ 2p m &gt; c9OtOl arChz70 w &gt; &amp; ~9 &lt; bJ ZiTz ?
g Uf .
V(/ -V , ~I~u ov'zl &amp; ma

