I. " On the Congelation of Animals .
" By JOHN DAVY , M.D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received July 19 , 1866 .
In a very interesting and elaborate paper by M. Puget , entitled " Sir la Congelation des Animaux , " published in the 'Journal de l'Anatomie et de la Physiologie , ' the Number for January and February of this year , he refers to a statement of mine , made many years ago* , that the leech may be frozen without loss of life .
The experiments which he has instituted , and which appear to have been conducted with great care , have led him to an opp osite conclusion , viz. that congelation is not only fatal to the leech , but to animals generally , without a single exception .
He considers the cause of death , the vera causa , to use his own words , to be an altered condition of the blood .
In consequence of this statement , I thought it right Researches , Physiol. and Anat .
ii .
p. 121 .
250 to repeat the experiments on the leech , and to extend them to some other animals .
They were begun at Oxford in May , in the laboratory of Professor Rolleston , with the kind assistance of Mr. Edward Chapman and Mr. Robertson ; and since then , in the following month , they have been continued at home in Westmoreland .
At Oxford the trials were made on leeches and frogs ; at home , on these animals , and on the toad and some insects .
The freezing mixture was made of pounded ice and common salt ; the temperature by it was commonly reduced to below 10 ?
Fahr. , or at times so low as 2 ?
or 3 ? .
The results obtained were briefly the following:1 .
A leech was exposed to the mixture in a small glass tube just large enough to hold it , using the tube for stirring the mixture .
Taken out when perfectly rigid and hard , and gradually thawed , it showed when punctured a faint indication of irritability ; there was a just perceptible contraction of the part punctured , the oral extremity , and nowhere else .
It did not revive .
2 .
Another leech was similarly exposed , but for a shorter time .
When divided by an incision , it was found not frozen throughout .
When punctured , it showed marks of irritability in a slight degree stronger than the preceding : it soon died .
3 .
Two leeches were similarly treated at home , and for a somewhat longer time ; the temperature reduced to 3 ? .
These , when gradually thawed , one exposed to the air , the other left in the mixture , showed no marks of revival ; but they retained a certain elasticity , so that when bent they shortly recovered their former attitude , after a manner somewhat resembling a vital movement ; but inasmuch as they did not respond by the slightest contraction to puncture , it may be inferred that the movement was not vital .
They resisted putrefaction for many days .
4 .
A frog in a thin glass vessel was kept in the mixture about a quarter of an hour .
It was very rigid when taken out ; thawed , no part on puncture afforded any indications of life ; watched two or three hours it proved to be dead .
5 .
The heart of a frog , removed immediately after decapitation , whilst still pulsating , was subjected to the freezing mixture in a small glass tube .
After having been frozen , on thawing it remained motionless , even when punctured .
It had been kept in the mixture only a few minutes .
6 .
The inferior extremities of a frog kept extended by a bandage and thus introduced into a glass tube , were submerged in the mixture , the body of the frog being held in the warm hand ; taken out after some minutes they were quite hard and motionless , whilst the body and upper extremities did not appear to be affected .
It moved about , dragging the lower extremities as if they were dead .
In about four hours it recovered the use of its femoral muscles ; on the following day the use of the muscles of the legs ; the day after it was able to bend and extend these limbs ; but there was no proof that its feet had recovered sensibility .
On the fourth day it was found dead .
7 .
The lower extremities of a large toad were immersed in direct contact with the mixture , the temperature falling to 3 ? .
Gradually thawed , the parts showed no marks of life .
This toad , which before the trial was in a dull state , afterward became almost torpid , and so continued until the following morning , when it was apparently dead : opened , the auricles were found feebly acting , ceasing after a few seconds* .
8 .
A similar experiment was made on the lower extremities of an active frog , and with a similar result , except that the vivacity of the animal was for a short time but little impaired : after four hours it was apparently dead ; opened , its auricles contracted when punctured .
It may be right to mention that , before exposing the toad and frog to the freezing mixture in direct contact , it was ascertained that the frog bore the immersion of its lower extremities in a saturated solution of common salt without any apparent loss of sensibility or motive powert .
9 .
The lower extremities of an active frog of a large size were wrapped in tin-foil , and together with one of its upper extremities not so wrapped , were kept in a freezing mixture about a quarter of an hour .
The frozen parts in thawing showed no marks of life .
The frog died in about three hours .
10 .
A cockroach , a flesh-fly , and a minute insect , an ichneumon * ( Celineus niger ?
) , confined together in a small glass tube , were kept some minutes in the mixture .
Thawed , they were found all three dead .
These results , so far as the particular instances are concerned , are sufficiently confirmatory of M. Puget 's , and on my mind they leave little doubt that his general proposition ( his inference from his very numerous experiments ) is correct , that congelation is fatal to animal life .
It is hardly worth while to attempt to account for the different conclusion I had come to , that referred to by him relative to the leech , it being partly founded on the fact that leeches which had been enveloped in ice for many days were not thereby killed , and partly on witnessing some marks of vitality in leeches which were believed to have been artificially frozen , and which very soon after died .
Whilst admitting that congelation , thorough congelation of an animal is incompatible with life , the cause of death from congelation seems open to question , and more especially that assigned by M. Puget as the vera causa , a change in the blood , and chiefly in its corpuscles .
That these corpuscles are changed by freezing in form and condition seems to be certain .
Before seeing M. Puget 's paper I had ascertained the fact , and not only that the corpuscles were changed , but also that the entire blood was to some extent altered , leading me at the time to ask whether some of the injurious effects of frost-bite may not be mainly owing to the freezing of the blood , and the changes in consequence in the corpuscles and in a less degree in the fibrin t ; and since , in examining the blood of the animals exposed to the freezing mixture , I have had this confirmed ; but the change in these instances was comparatively slight ; even in those of the congealed limbs of the frogs and toad the majority of the corpuscles appeared little altered ; some few seemed ruptured , some corrugated , and more contracted .
Judging from the effect of congelation on the heart of the frog in experiment No. 5 , and from the effects of congelation partially produced , as in the extremities of the frog and toad , I would rather attribute the death to the freezing of the organs , not excluding the blood , than to the freezing of the blood alone ; and I would ask , is not this view most in accordance with the pathology of the subject , with all that we know of frost-bite and its consequences in man , and with the results of Mr. Hunter 's experiments on the local effects of congelation in animals-those on the ear of the rabbit and wottle of the cock ?
and do not some evenl of M. Puget 's results give it support , such as the opacity of the crystalline lens , he admitting that , were it possible for an animal to revive after complete congelation , it would be blind from cataract ?
Now , if the crystalline lens , if the bloodcorpuscles suffer and undergo an appreciable change from congelation , it would be very remarkable indeed did not the brain and nerves , and the organs generally suffer from the same cause , and experience changes incompatible with life .
In the instance of man , we know that a certain reduction of his temperature merely , not reaching to congelation , suffices to extinguish life * , and that in the instances of other animals , especially the hybernating and insects , a moderate reduction occasions torpor , ending in death if too prolonged .
That the organs generally suffer from congelation M. Puget himself admits , as expressed in the subjoined paragrapht .
I have found , too , that the muscles , after having been frozen , exhibit a marked change ; thus , in one instance , that of a frog , in which , after decapitation , an upper and lower extremity were fiozen , the muscles of these limbs , when thawed , compared with those which had not been frozen , showed a well-marked difference under the microscope .
Thus , whilst in the latter the striated structure was very distinct , in the former it was no longer visible ; and after a few hours , viz. on the following morning , whilst the unfrozen muscles had undergone no perceptible alteration , those which had been frozen had become of increased tenderness , yielding to a slight rending force , and breaking short , as if the coherence of the particles forming the fasciculi was greatly diminished .

