XX .
" On the Absorption and Radiation of Heat by Gaseous and Liquid Matter."-Fourth Memoir .
By JOHN TYNDALL , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1863 .
In his former researches on the absorption and radiation of heat by gaseous matter , the author compared different gases and vapours at a common thickness with each other .
In the first part of the present communication he determines , in the case of several gases and vapours , the absorption effected by different thicknesses of the same gaseous body .
His least thickness was 0-01 of an inch , and his greatest 49'4 inches ; thus the thickness varied from 1 to nearly 5000 .
The apparatus employed for the smaller thicknesses consisted of a hollow cylinder , with its end closed by a plate of rock-salt ; into this fitted a second hollow cylinder , with its end closed by a second plate of salt .
One cylinder moved within the other as a piston , and by this means the plates of salt could be brought into flat contact with each other , or separated to any required distance .
The distance between the plates was measured by means of a vernier .
The cylinder was placed horizontal , being suitably connected with the front chamber used in the author 's former researches , and the source of heat employed was a copper plate , against which a steady sheet of gas-flame was caused to play .
The absorptions of carbonic oxide , carbonic acid , nitrous oxide , and olefiant gas were determined by this apparatus , and such differences as might be anticipated from former experiments were found .
Olefiant gas maintained its great supremacy over the others at all thicknesses .
A layer of this gas , 0'01 of an inch thick , effected an absorption of about 1 per cent. of the total radiation .
To show the competence of the apparatus to measure an absorption of this magnitude , it is only necessary to state that the galvanometric deflection corresponding to this absorption was 11 degrees .
Were it worth while , it might be shown that the absorption by a plate of the gas not more than f-01-th of an inch in thickness is capable of measurement .
A layer of olefiant gas 2 inches in thickness intercepted nearly 30 per cent. of the entire radiation .
Such a layer , encompassing the earth as a shell , permitting the passage of the solar rays , and preventing the escape of the terrestrial ones , would probably raise the surface of the earth to a stifling temperature .
A layer of the gas three-tenths of an inch in thickness intercepts 11'5 per cent. of the radiation .
Such a layer , if diffused through 10 feet of air , would be far more attenuated than the aqueous vapour actually existing in the air ; still it would effect an absorption greater than that which the author has ascribed to the atmospheric vapour within 10 feet of the earth 's surface .
In the presence of such facts , arguments drawn from the smallness of quantity of the atmospheric vapours are entirely devoid of weight .
For larger thicknesses of gas and vapour , a tube was employed , which was divided into parts capable of being used separately or together .
The mode of proceeding was this:-A brass cylinder 49'4 inches long had its two ends stopped with rock-salt ; a source of heat was attached to it exactly as in the author 's experiments described in former memoirs .
The pile and the compensating cube also occupied their old positions ; but instead of determining the absorption effected in a column of gas or vapour equal in length to the whole tube , the tube was now divided into two independent compartments by a third plate of rock-salt .
Let us call the compartment furthest from the pile the first chamber , and that nearest to the pile the second chamber .
The experiments were commenced with the first chamber very short , and the second chamber long ; and the plate of salt was subsequently shifted so as to lengthen the first chamber and shorten the second one , the sum of the lengths of both chambers being preserved constant at 49'4 inches .
The absorption effected in the first chamber acting alone was first determined ; then the absorption effected by the second chamber acting alone ; and finally , the absorption effected when both chambers were occupied by the gas or vapour was determined .
This arrange meant enabled the author to examine the influence of the sifting which occurred in the first chamber on the absorption effected by the second one .
The thermal coloration of the various gases was rendered very manifest by these experiments the heterogeneity of the obscure calorific flux being demonstrated , and the selective action of the gases on particular constituents of the flux exhibited .
A stratum of carbonic oxide 8 inches thick being placed in front of a tube containing 41'4 inches of the same gas , those 8 inches intercept 6'02 per cent. of the whole radiation ; the same 8 inches being placed behind the column 41'4 inches in length , the absorption effected is almost nil .
So with carbonic acid : 8 inches in front absorb 6'25 per cent. , while behind they absorb a scarcely measurable quantity .
Similar remarks apply to the other gases , the reason manifestly being , that when the 8-inch stratum is in front , it intercepts the main portion of the rays which give it its thermal colour , while when it is behind , these rays have been in great part withdrawn , and to the remainder the gas is transparent .
From analogous reasoning we conclude that the sum of the absorptions of the two chambers , taken separately , must always be greater than the absorption effected by a single column of gas of a length equal to the sum of the two chambers .
This conclusion is illustrated in a striking manner by the results ; and it is further found that if the mean of the sums of the absorptions of the two chambers , taken separately , be divided by the absorption of the sum , the quotient is the same for all gases .
It is also to be inferred from the foregoing considerations , that the sum of the absorptions must diminish as the two chambers become more unequal in length , and must be a maximum when they are equal .
In these days a special interest attaches to the radiation from any gas through itself , or through any other having the same period of radiation .
The author records the results of an elaborate series of experiments on this point .
The experimental tube , 49*4 inches long , was divided into two compartments by a partition of rock-salt .
The compartment nearest to the pile was filled with the gas which was to act as absorber , while the chamber most distant from the pile contained the gas which was to act as radiator .
This latter gas was warmed by the destruction of its own vis viva within the chamber .
The radiation was what the author has called dynamic radiation .
The lengths of two chambers were varied , the radiating column being lengthened , and the absorbing one shortened at the same time .
The experiments were carried out with a considerable number of gases and vapours .
The experiments with the vapours were thus executed .
First , the chamber nearest the pile was occupied by vapour of a certain pressure ; the other chamber was then occupied by the same vapour at the same pressure .
The entrance of the vapour was so slow , and its quantity was so small , that the dynamic radiation due to the destruction of its own vis viva was almost insensible .
The needle being at zero , dry air was allowed to enter the chamber most distant from the pile ; the air became heated , communicated its heat to the vapour , and the latter radiated it against the pile .
It is quite evident that not only does this case resemble , but it is of the same mechanical nature as that in which a vibrating tuning-fork is brought into contact with a surface of some extent .
The fork , which a moment before was inaudible , becomes at once a copious source of sound ; it communicates its motion to a body of sufficient dimensions to transmit it in large quantities to the air .
What the sounding-board is to the tuning-fork , the vibrating compound molecule is to the elementary atom .
The tuning-fork swinging alone is in the condition of the elementary atom radiating alone , the sound of the one and the heat of the other being insensible ; but in association with the particles of acetic or sulphuric ether , the elementary atom is in the condition of the tuning-fork applied to its sound-board , communicating through the molecule motion to the luminiferous ether , as the fork through the board communicates it to the air .
These experiments show the great opacity of a gas to radiations from the same gas .
They also show , in a very interesting manner , the influence of attenuation in the case of the vapours .
The individual molecules of a vapour may be powerful absorbers and radiators , but in thin strata they may constitute an open sieve , through which a large quantity of radiant heat may pass .
In such thin strata , therefore , the vapours , as used in the experiments , were generally found less energetic than the gases , while in thick strata the same vapours showed an energy greatly superior to the same gases .
A few striking results are recorded by the author in illustration of the influence of a lining within the experimental tube on the radiation .
A ring of blackened paper , for example , not more than 11 inch in width , placed within a polished brass tube , radiated , when dry air was permitted to enter the tube , a quantity of heat sufficient to urge the needle of the galvanometer through an arc of 56 ?
; while , when the ring was removed , the radiation from the whole surface of the tube produced a deflection of only 7 ?
'5 .
The author finally examines the diathermancy of the liquids from which the vapours made use of in his experiments were derived ; and the result leaves no shadow of doubt upon the mind , that if any vapour be a strong absorber , the liquid of that vapour is also a strong absorber .
The phenomenon is one in which the individual molecules are implicated , the molecule carrying its power as a radiant and an absorbent through all its states of aggregation .
The order of absorption in liquids and vapours is precisely the same .
These facts revive thoughts regarding the connexion between radiation and conduction , to which the author has already given expression .
In a future memoir he hopes to throw additional light on this important subject .

