XIV .
Farther particulars of a case of Pneumatothorax .
By JOHN DAVY , M. D. F R. S. Read March 4 , 1824 .
IN the last communication which I had the honour of making to the Royal Society on the subject of pneumato-thorax , I expressed the hope that the patient , who had been operated on , and greatly relieved by tapping the chest , and permitting the accumulated air to escape , would eventually recover .
This anticipation , I regret I cannot confirm .
The case has terminated fatally ; and I now beg leave to describe briefly its progress .
On the 17th of June , about a month after the operation , when the patient appeared to be doing so well , there were symptoms indicating the supervention of hydro-thorax ; * and , in another week , these symptoms had so much increased , that they could not be mistaken .
Avoiding minute details , it will be sufficient to observe that the patient , when he attempted to lie on the right side , was instantly seized with a fit of coughing ; and that when his body was shaken , the sound of fluid fluctuating in air in the left side of the chest was distinctly audible even at the distance of several yards .
As the patients ' health was pretty good , it was deemed advisable , in consultation , to repeat the operation of paracentesis , and draw off the fluid , which was rapidly increasing , before the case should become desperate .
Having , in cases of empyema , found many inconveniences attending the puncturing the pleura between an intercostal space , I was induced , in this instance , to follow the method described by HIPPOCRATES , of perforating one of the ribs.* The fifth rib was selected ; and having cut down upon it with a scalpel just below the papilla of the breast , I bored through its substance with a carpenter 's auger , and punctured the : pleura with a small trochar , as nearly as possible of the same size as the auger .
On withdrawing the stilette , it was followed by a stream of transparent fluid , fourteen ounces of which were allowed to escape ; and then leaving the canula in the perforation , it was closed with a cork , and secured by proper dressings .
Daily , during six weeks , more or less fluid was discharged through an opening in the rib , amounting altogether to rather more than twenty pints .
At first , the fluid was transparent , of specific gravity io$ ; it coagulated when heated , and contained some alkali in the state of subcarbonate .
In a few days pus appeared in it , and gradually increased in quantity till the 15th of July , when the discharge was almost entirely purulent ; after which , the proportions of pus and serum varied considerably ; one sometimes predominating , and sometimes the other .
It may be deserving of notice , that at no time was I able to detect free carbonic acid in the fluid discharged .
Though from the sound of fluctuation in the chest , air was evidently contained in the pleura , yet none escaped with the fluid during the first fortnight ; after which a considerable quantity was daily expelled .
By means of the perforation in the rib , and using a flaccid bladder furnished with a trochar , I could at any time collect this air for examination with the greatest ease .
The first portion collected ( about twenty cubic inches ) , was , on the i5th of July , examined by means of lime water and phosphorus ; it was found to consist of 7.5 carbonic acid gas , 2.5 oxygene , 90.0 azote .
The second portion collected ( about thirty-five cubic inches ) was on the goth July ; it consisted of 6.0 carbonic acid gas , 5.5 oxygene , 88.5 azote .
The last portion collected was on the 29th of the same month ( about forty cubic inches ) ; it consisted of 8.o carbonic acid gas , 4.o oxygene , 88.o azote .
For some days after the operation of paracentesis , the health of the patient deteriorated ; his appetite diminished ; and he had some fever , but unattended with rigors .
At this time , judging from the increasing proportion of pus that appeared in the fluid dicharged , the pleura was probably undergoing inflammation , though the side affected was quite free from pain .
Gradually these symptoms subsided ; and on the 15th July he felt better than before the operation ; he had less difficulty of breathing , very little cough , and he could lie easily on either side .
This improvement was progressive till the 2srd July , after which his health again became worse , his appetite impaired , and his spirits low ; he had 959 slight fever and a feeble pulse , varying in frequency between 90 and i2o .
This unfavourable change was attended with the emission of a large quantity of air from the pleura , and with an alteration in the character of the fluid discharged , which had become more purulent , of a greenish hue , and of an offensive odour .
The patient expired suddenly on the 29th July .
The body was examined twelve hours after death , when the following were the most important morbid appearances that were discovered .
The cavity of the abdomen having been laid open , the diaphragm was found slightly protruding into the left hypochondriac region , without displacement of any of the abdominal viscera .
The body having been immersed in a bath , on opening into the left pleura between the first and .
second ribs , air , to the amount of 170 cubic inches issued out and was collected it consisted of 1.6 carbonic acid gas , 1.5 oxygene , 82.5 azote .
The left pleura contained besides , about six ounces of pus , so much having subsided from the water that entered the chest to supply the place of the air .
The right pleura was quite free from disease .
The right lung appeared to be healthy , but on minute examination , numerous granular translucent tubercles were detected disseminated through its substance , and two small vomicae were found in the upper part of its superior lobe .
The heart was displaced ; it was situated on the spine , inclining a little to the right side , and the position of the greater part of the 260 oesophagus was similar .
The pericardium was firmly attached to the middle lobe of the right lung by a firm band of adhesion .
On exposing to view the left cavity of the chest , the inside of the pleura exhibited a surface of milkwhite granular coagulable lymph , about two lines thick , equally diffused on the costal and the pulmonic side .
Excepting the cicatrices externally in the skin , no traces could be detected of the two first operations , nor was there any mark of the last operation , exclusive of the small opening , which had been carefully kept open , just large enough to admit the trochar , which had been daily introduced to draw off the fluid , and allow the air to escape .
On maceration of the rib , it may be remarked , a very narrow ring of bone was found exfoliating from the perforated part .
The left lung was very much condensed , and so firmly confined by its thickened pleura , that it did not dilate when air was driven into it with some force by a double bellows attached to the trachea .
This experiment was made with the lung under water , : for the purpose of ascertaining if any , and what kind of communication , existed between the lung and the pleura , with a view to discover the origin of the air accumulated in this cavity .
Two communications were thus detected ; one in the inferior , the other in the superior lobe .
The former was so exceedingly small that it could not be traced .
The latter opening was sufficiently large to admit a surgeon 's probe , and its course was easily followed ; it was found to communicate directly and obliquely with a ruptured opening in the side of a large bronchial tube , situated immediately under the pleura .
The adjoining pulmonary substance appeared to be merely condensed from compression .
The 9 , 61i substance of the lung generally , was in the same state ; and , besides containing a very few minute tubercles , it exhibited no other marks of disease .
In the fatal case of IREDILL , described in my former paper , pneumato-thorax took place in consequence of ulceration effecting a communication between the cavity of the pleura and a vomica in the lung .
In this instance the disease originated without the intervention of a vomica , and probably without ulceration ; it appears to have resulted from a communication between the aspera arteria and cavity of the pleura , established by the rupture of a superficial bronchial tube , and the membrane of the pleura covering it .
It is surprising that accidents of this kind do not more frequently occur , considering the very large number of bronchial tubes that lie immediately under the pleural covering of the lung , and how delicate this membrane is , and how easily both it and the bronchia are torn .
In a professional point of view , it would be an interesting , though not an easy task , to trace the different steps of the disease , of which I have given a brief history , from its commencement to its termination , and connect the symptoms with the organic changes that occurred .
As more appropriate to this place , I shall confine the few remarks I have farther to make , to the air procured from the pleura .
The following table exhibits , at one view , the composition of the air collected from the chest at different times .
s62 ... Composition .
When collected ... When coll arbonic acid , Oxygene.:Azote .
( May 17 ---93 July 15 ; T7.5 2.5 iO9 .
; ::-6 5.5 iS 8.5 s --_ ' ---9 84 88 ---SO l6 1.5,82.5 To what are these variations in composition , which the table exhibits , owing ?
I cannot conceive that they depend entirely on the admission of variable quantities of atmospheric air by the external opening , because exceedingly little atmospheric air could enter through that channel , both from the great care taken to exclude it , and from the valvular nature of the passage.* I believe we must look chiefly to the source of the air and the absorbent power of the pleura for the explanation in question .
In this case , as in IREDILL2S , there is reason to suppose that the air accumulated in the chest was common air , more or less vitiated by respiration previously , and more or less altered by the process of absorption after entering the cavity of the pleura .
Taking this view of the subject , the composition of the air each time it was examined , is easily accounted for , excepting in the last instance , when the proportion of carbonic acid gas was found to be so large , post mortem .
On what this depended , it is not easy to say ; it is matter for conjecture , and seems to require farther investigation .
Messrs. ALLEN and PEPYS , after a forced expiration , found air from the lungs to contain as much as 9.5 per cent. carbonic acid gas ; * and , in different instances that I have examined the air contained in the lungs a few hours after death , I have found the proportion of carbonic acid gas to vary from 8 to i2 per cent. ; thus , in a fatal case of empyema , the air procured from one lung that was sound , consisted of 8.3 carbonic acid gas , 5.0 oxygene , 86.7 azote : that from the other lung , which was condensed , and as it were hepatized , of 1i.5 carbonic acid gas , e.o oxygene , 85.5 azote : whilst in another case , in which one lung was sound , and the other abounded in minute cavities full of pus , air from the sound lung consisted of 12.2 carbonic acid gas , 3.0 oxygene , 84.8 azote .
Had the proportion of carbonic acid gas , in the instance under consideration , been within these limits , the explanation would have been attended with little difficulty ; but , exceeding these limits , one is almost disposed to refer it to exhalation or secretion from the pleura , a notion in favour of which , some fcts , were it necessary , might be adduced .
Edinburgh December,4 , 18z3

