An Account of some Experiments on the Combinations of different Metals and Chlorine , 8rc .
By John Davy , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Knt. LL. D. Sec. R.S. Read February 27 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 169 .
] The principal objects of these experiments is to determine the proportions in which oxymuriatic acid or chlorine combines with various metals ; but the author has also extended his inquiry to the relative proportions , in which oxygen also , and sulphur , unite with some of the same metallic substances .
Of copper , Mr. John Davy notices two compounds , to which he gives the names of Cuprane and Cupranea .
The former is the same as the resin copper of Boyle , which may be obtained by heating together one part of copper with two parts of corrosive sublimate .
This compound is also the same as that named by Proust , white muriate of copper , who obtained it by mixing together muriates of tin and copper ; and Proust observed that the same compound might be procured , by heat , from the common deliquescent muriate of copper .
This compound is fusible by heat below redness , and in close vessels is not decomposed by a strong red heat ; but if air be freely admitted , it is dissipated in white fumes .
It is insoluble in water , but is soluble with effervescence in nitric acid , and without effervescence in muriatic .
It consists of 36 chlorine , and 64 copper .
In the other compound , which the author calls Cupranea ( a term that , in the language proposed by his brother , implies a substance containing more acid ) , the proportions are 53 chlorine , and 47 copper .
This compound is also best obtained from the common deliquescent muriate by slow evaporation , carried ultimately to dryness , at a temperature not exceeding 400 ?
of Fahrenheit ; for if greater heat be applied , one portion of chlorine is expelled , and what remains is reduced to the state of cuprane and resin copper .
In addition to the foregoing , there is also a native muriate of copper , which , by the author 's analysis , consists of 73 brown oxide , 16*2 muriatic acid , and 108 water .
This compound has also been imitated by Proust ; and Mr. J. Davy has also found various methods of making the same combination .
Tin also forms two compounds with chlorine , one already known under the name of the fuming liquor of Libavius , which the author calls Stannanea , most readily obtained by heating together an amalgam of tin with corrosive sublimate ; and a second analogous to the former , made by the substitution of calomel , and accordingly containing a less proportion of chlorine , and therefore called stannane .
The former contains 42*1 tin , with 579 chlorine .
The latter 62-22 tin , 37-78 chlorine .
The only new and remarkable property of the liquor of Libavius observed by Mr. J. Davy , is its action upon oil of turpentine , which in one experiment was so violent as to occasion inflammation .
In other instances oxide of tin seemed to be formed , and a tenacious oil , having a smell somewhat like camphor .
Beside these compounds of tin with chlorine alone , there is also a submuriate observed by Proust , containing about 70A4 grey oxide , 19 muriatic acid , and 10-6 water .
With iron likewise , as well as with the former metals , there are two compounds with chlorine , which may either be formed by direct union with oxymuriatic gas , or may be obtained by evaporating to dryness the green and red muriates of iron .
When thus deprived of water , they receive the name of Ferrane and Ferranea .
The former contains 46-57 iron , and 53-43 chlorine ; the latter 35*1 iron , and 64.9 chlorine .
With other metals that have been tried by the author , such as manganese , lead , zinc , arsenic , antimony , and bismuth , he has not found that chlorine combines in more than one proportion .
The compound with manganese bears a red heat , in close vessels , without decomposition ; but when it is heated in an open vessel , muriatic acid fumes are evolved , and oxide of manganese remains .
It appears to consist of 54 chlorine , and 46 manganese .
The muriate of lead , known by the name of Horn lead , but called by the author Plumbane , was found to contain 74'23 lead , and 25,77 chlorine .
Butter of zinc , obtained by distilling to dryness the muriate of zinc , was found to consist of exactly equal parts of the two ingredients .
The fuming butter of arsenic was found to contain nearly 60 chlorine to 40 arsenic .
This compound has the property of dissolving phosphorus when gently heated , but to part with it on being cooled .
It also readily dissolves sulphur when warmed , and yields crystals of sulphur by cooling .
It likewise dissolves resins , oil of turpentine , or olive oil ; and in these respects resembles the compounds of sulphur or phosphorus with chlorine , which have the same property of entering into combination with fixed and volatile oils .
In this respect also the butter of antimony was found to agree with the same compounds ; and in the proportion of its constituent parts , to be as nearly as possible the reverse of the preceding .
It is remarked concerning these compounds , in general , of metals with chlorine , that their volatility or fusibility are in no degree correspondent to the qualities of the metals of which they consist .
One of the compounds of iron , for instance , is volatile ; but those of bismuth , zinc , and lead , are even less fusible than the metals themselves .
In order to correct the preceding analysis , the author has had recourse to the general analogy of definite proportions ; and since one of hydrogen unites with 7*5 oxygen , or with 33 &amp; 6 chlorine , the compounds of chlorine have been compared with the oxides of the same metals ; and in the instances of copper , iron , zinc , and arsenic , have been found to agree correctly with the analyses of oxides by other chemists ; and where such agreement has been wanting , it has been obtained by new analyses of the oxides of tin , lead , antimony , and bismuth .
In making similar comparisons of the compounds of the same metals with sulphur , four instances of correspondence were found in tin , lead , antimony , and bismuth ; but others were observed not to accord with the proportions assigned .
The author concludes with observing the degree of analogy that subsists between the oxides of metals , and their compounds , with chlorine ; horn silver , resin copper , horn lead , and corrosive sublimate , being each soluble in excess of muriatic acid , although the last is even less soluble in nitric or sulphuric acids than in mere water .

