II .
" On some Physical Properties of Ice .
" By JOHN TYNDALL , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the following points are considered:1 .
The effects of radiant heat upon ice .
2 .
The effects of conducted heat upon ice .
3 .
The airand water-cavities of ice .
4 .
The effects of pressure upon ice .
For the experiments on radiant heat , slabs of Wenham Lake and Norway ice were made use of .
Through these a solar beam , condensed by a double convex lens , was transmitted .
At the moment the beam crossed the transparent solid , the track of the beam became instantly starred by little lustrous spots , like shining air-bubbles .
Round each of these a figure , shaped like a flower of six petals , was formed .
The petals were manifestly liquid water .
When the beam was permitted to traverse different portions of the ice in succession , the sudden appearance of the stars , and the formation and growth of the flowers around them , could be distinctly observed through an ordinary pocket lens .
To test whether the brilliant spots at the centres of the flowers contained air or not , portions of ice containing them were gradually melted in warm water .
The moment a liquid connexion was established between the cavities and the atmosphere , the bubbles collapsed , and no trace of air rose to the surface of the water .
The formation of each liquid flower is therefore accompanied by the formation of a vacuum at its centre .
The perfect symmetry of these flowers at once enables us to infer that ice is a uniaxal crystal , the line perpendicular to the planes in which the flowers are produced being the optic axis .
For a long time during the investigation it was found that the flowers were formed in planes parallel to those of freezing ; but some apparent exceptions to this rule were afterwards noticed , which are described in the paper .
In some masses of ice , apparently homogeneous , the flowers were formed on the track of the beam , in planes which were in some cases a quarter of an inch apart .
This proves that the interior portions of a mass of ice may be melted by radiant heat which has traversed other portions of the mass without melting them .
In a second section of the paper the author describes the gradual liquefaction of masses of ice by the formation of drops of water within them ; and he infers from his observations that the melting-point of ice oscillates within small limits on each side of the ordinary standard .
Through weakness of crystalline texture , or some other cause , some portions of a mass of ice melt at a temperature slightly under 320 Fahr. , while others of stronger texture require a temperature slightly over 32 ?
to liquefy them .
The consequence is , that such a mass , raised to the temperature 32 ?
, will have some of its parts liquid and some solid .
In a third section the airand water-cavities observed in ice are examined .
These the author observed in lake ice , and they are manifestly the same as those described by M. Agassiz , the Messrs. Schlagintweit , and Mr. Huxley , as occurring in the ice of glaciers .
The hypothesis of M. Agassiz and the Messrs. Schlagintweit is , that the air-bubble absorbs the heat which the ice , as a diathermanous body , has permitted to pass , the solid surrounding the bubble being liquefied by the heat thus absorbed .
Mr. Huxley makes the supposition most in accordance with the facts known at the time of his observations , namely , that the water in the cavity has never been frozen .
It is shown by the author that the water-cavities examined by him have been produced by the melting of the ice .
But the hypothesis of M. Agassiz and the Messrs. Schlagintweit , which appears to have received general acceptance , leads to the following consequences:-Taking the specific heat of water and of air into account , the author shows that a bubble of air , in order to raise its own volume of water 1 ?
in temperature , must lose 30800 .
Taking the latent heat of water into account , the author shows that , to melt its own volume of ice , an air-bubble must part with 3080X142-6 , or 439,208 ?
of temperature .
Now M. Agassiz states , that when a piece of ice containing bubbles is exposed to the sun , the water formed soon exceeds the air in volume .
Hence , if his hypothesis be correct , the quantity of heat absorbed by the air in the brief time of an observation , would , if it had not been communicated to the ice , be sufficient to raise the bubble to a temperature 160 times that of fused cast iron .
The author further infers , from the experiments of Delaroche and Melloni , that the quantity of heat absorbed by a bubble of air at the earth 's surface , after the heat has traversed our atmosphere and been sifted by it , is absolutely inappreciable .
This conclusion becomes stronger when the absorption by the ice in the case before us is added to the absorption by the atmosphere .
Regarding heat as a mode of motion , the author shows that the liberty of liquidity is attained by the molecules at the surface of a mass of ice before the molecules at the centre of the mass can attain this liberty .
Within the mass each molecule is controlled in its motion by the surrounding molecules .
But if a cavity exist at the interior , the molecules surrounding that cavity are in a condition similar to those at the surface ; and they are liberated by an amount of motion which has been transmitted through the ice without prejudice to its solidity .
The conception is helped when we call to , mind the transmission of motion through a series of elastic balls , by which the last ball of the series is detached , while the others do not suffer visible separation .
The author proves , by actual experiment , that the interior portions of a mass of ice may be liquefied by an amount of heat which has been conducted through the exterior portions without melting them .
The converse of this takes place when two pieces of ice at 32 ?
Fahr. , with moist surfaces , are brought into contact .
Superficial portions are by this act virtually transferred to the centre ; and as equilibrium soon sets in between the motion of the tenuous film of moisture between the pieces of ice and the solid on each side of it , the consequence is shown to be that the film freezes , and cements the two pieces of ice together .
The fourth section of the paper is devoted to these considerations .
In the fifth section a series of observations bearing upon the conductivity of ice for heat is recorded .
In the sixth section the influence of pressure upon ice is examined .
A cylinder of the substance was placed between two slabs of boxwood , and subjected to a gradually-increasing pressure .
Looked at perpendicular to the axis , cloudy lines were observed drawing themselves across the cylinder .
Looked at obliquely , these lines were found to be the sections of dim surfaces which traversed the cylinder , and gave it the appearance of a crystal of gypsum whose planes of cleavage had been forced out of optical contact by some external force .
The surfaces are not of plates of air , for they are formed when the compressed ice is kept under water .
They also commence sometimes in the centre of the mass , and spread gradually on all sides till they finally embrace the entire transverse section of the cylinder .
A concave mirror was so disposed that the diffuse light of day was thrown upon the cylinder while under pressure .
The hazy surfaces produced by the compression of the mass were observed to be in a state of intense commotion , which followed closely upon the edge of the surface as it advanced through the solid .
It is finally shown that these surfaces are due to the liquefaction of the ice in planes perpendicular to the pressure .
The surfaces were always formed with great facility parallel to , those planes in which the liquid flowers already described are produced by radiant heat , while it is exceedingly difficult to obtain them perpendicular to these planes .
Thus , whether we apply heat or pressure , the experiments show that ice melts with peculiar facility in certain directions .

