A paper was read , entitled , " Notice of an Extraordinary Lumi ?
nous Appearance seen in the Heavens on the 17th of March , 1843 , " in a Letter to S. H. Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. , by Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , F.R.S. Collingwood , March 17 , 1843 .
My Dear Sir , ?
This evening , at half-past seven o'clock , I received notice from one of my servants of a luminous appearance in the sky , visible towards the S.W. , which I immediately ran out to observe , and which , as it differed in some remarkable particulars from any phenomenon of the kind I have ever before observed or seen described , I think it not unlikely to prove interesting to the Royal Society .
The evening was one of uncommon serenity and beauty : the moon , only thirty-eight hours after the full , having considerable south declination , was not yet risen .
In consequence , the sun being already far enough below the horizon to leave only a faint glow of twilight in the west , the stars shone with unsubdued brilliancy , no cloud being visible in any quarter .
Orion in particular was seen in all its splendour ; and commencing below that constellation , and stretching obliquely westward and downwards , nearly , but not quite to the horizon , was seen the luminous appearance in question .
Its general aspect was that of a perfectly straight , narrow band of considerably bright white cloud , thirty degrees in length , and about a degree and a quarter , or a degree and a half in breadth in the mid ?
dle of its length ; its brightness nearly uniform , except towards the ends , where it faded gradually , so that to define its exact termination at either end was difficult .
However , by the best judgement I could form , it might be considered as terminating , to the eastward or following side , at , or a very little beyond , the stars t , k , X Leporis , which stars ( being of the fifth , or at most 5*4 magnitude ) were pretty conspicuously visible ; from which circumstance the degree of bright ?
ness of the ground of the sky in that region may be well estimated .
Between these stars and p Leporis , the luminous band then commenced , involving neither of them , but more nearly contiguous to m and\ than to fx .
From thence its course was towards ir Eridani , which star must have been covered by it , and was not seen ; this judgement of its direction having been formed by noticing that it passed clearly above y Eridani , and as clearly below and parallel to the direction of ?
, e Eridani , which two stars being dimmed by the vapours of the horizon and the twilight , were so little conspicuous as perfectly to account for tt not having been noticed .
At the point of its pass ?
age between y and 3 it was still considerably bright , and as it terminated with somewhat more abruptness at a point beyond e ( then about 12 ?
high ) than at its upper extremity , I am rather disposed to consider this end as somewhat curtailed by the vapours .
Making no allowance , however , for this , and estimating its visible termina ?
tion at a point on a celestial globe nearly opposite ?
Eridani ( which star however was not noticed at the time ) , the length above assigned to the luminous band ( 30 ?
) has been concluded by measurement on the globe .
I am thus particular in describing the course , situation and di ?
mensions of the band , not only as terms of comparison with other observations of it , should any have been made , but for another rea ?
son , in which consists the peculiarity of the phenomenon , and which is my sole motive for making this communication .
The above situ ?
ation and course , relatively to those stars , remained perfectly unal ?
tered the whole time it remained visible at all , which it did for up ?
wards of an hour from the time I first saw it , accompanying the stars in their diurnal motion , until the preceding end at length was extin ?
guished in the horizon vapours with the stars adjacent , and until the light of the rising moon dimmed and at length effaced the rest , though 1 apprehend its intrinsic lustre to have been in progress of diminution during the last quarter of an hour or twenty minutes .
I should not forget to mention , that neither in the north-west , nor elsewhere , were any streamers or other appearances of Aurora Borealis perceptible during any part of the evening .
The only other luminous appearance , the milky way excepted , was that of the zodiacal light , which I have seldom seen to greater advantage in this climate , and which extended high enough to involve the Pleiades , then about 55 ?
from the sun .
I have said that the general aspect of the phenomenon was that of a bright white cloud .
In fact , my first impression was that such was its nature ; an impression immediately dissipated and ultimately converted into the contrary certainty by the following considerations and observed facts .
For , in the first place , no ordinary cloud at such an angular elevation above the horizon could have received from the sun , even at the earliest hour when it was observed , anything like sufficient illumination to have presented so luminous an appearance ; that luminary being then between 9 ?
and 10 ?
below the horizon , and the moon not yet being risen , even at eight o'clock , when I judged the light of the band by contrast with the increasing darkness of the ground of the sky to have attained its maximum , at which hour the depression of the sun was nearly 12 ? .
Moreover , 2ndly , about a quarter of an hour after the band was first observed , being then on the roof of my house and having a very uninterrupted view of the western horizon , I noticed the for ?
mation of a small streak of cloud about the same apparent altitude , somewhat to the north of the pyramid of the zodiacal light , and therefore nearer to the place of the sun below the horizon .
The direction of this streak was horizontal , not oblique , and its hue black , not white .
This cloud enlarged and became projected as a dark space within the zodiacal light , and soon after others of a less defined character formed elsewhere , all , however , without exception , dark instead of luminous .
3rdly .
At the rising of the moon , about half-past eight , the light of our band , already probably on the decrease , was almost wholly effaced .
On the other hand , by this time numerous lines and cirrous streaks of light cloud which had been for some time in progress of formation , and had been either wholly unseen before or only noticed by their effacing the stars behind them , became illuminated , and appeared as white streaks and patches , such as are usually observed in moonlight nights .
4thly , and lastly .
Although the night was very calm , yet on watching narrowly the motions and changes of these real clouds with respect to the stars , they were perceived to rise very sloivly from the west , i. e. in a direction nearly or quite contrary to that of the declining band .
From these united considerations , and from the extreme fixity of the band among the stars , I consider it impossible to regard it as a cloud illuminated by the sun through the medium of atmospheric refraction .
The latter reason , too , is equally conclusive against its being classed with ordinary auroral bands and arcs , which , though they keep their position well enough to be regarded as at rest by a careless observer , yet , when compared with stars , are always per ?
ceived to be drifting , as it were , in some certain direction , or other ?
wise changing in figure and dimension .
If we look to an origin for this phenomenon beyond our atmosphere , we become involved in speculations , which , however inter ?
esting , it is not the object of this communication to enter into .
On the other hand , its purpose will be answered if either it should be the occasion ofeliciting corresponding observations of the same , or notices of similar phenomena already observed , or should lead to increased watchfulness on the part of meteorologists to avail themselves of occasions ( which perhaps occur oftener than we are aware ) of noting anything analogous in future .
I have the honour to remain , My dear Sir , Your very faithful and obedient Servant , J. F. W. Herschel .
Saturday , March 18 , 1843 .
P.S. ?
There having been no post today , and the above not having been finished in time for despatch last night , an opportunity is afforded me for stating that the phenomenon above described has again reappeared this evening , at the same hour and in the same situation , or rather a very little more to the north , so as to graze and partly to involve the stars k , \ Leporis .
It was also traceable in R. A. some little way beyond those stars on the following side .
The horizon being more obscured by vapour tonight than last night , neither y , S , nor e Eridani could be seen .
The fixity of this object among the stars on the 17th , induced me to express to a member of my family this morning an idea that it might possibly be seen again tonight , in which event its extra-atmospheric origin would become quite evident .
If a thread be stretched on a celestial globe along the central line of the band as nearly as the above observations will enable us to fix it , and prolonged to meet the ecliptic , it will strihe on the actual place of the sun .
The inference seems almost unavoidable , that our band is no other than the tail of a magnificent comet , whose head at the times of both observations has been below the horizon .
I await , therefore , with extreme interest , the event of further observation , but although to afford others an opportunity of observing it , it will be neces ?
sary for me to make a more immediate and public announcement , I am still desirous to place on record my first impressions respecting so remarkable an appearance , in the mode originally intended , both as a mark of respect to the Royal Society , and as pointing inquiry to other luminous " streaks " and " columns " in the sky , which have been spoken of to me as having been seen during the last summer and autumn on more than one occasion , and which in point of fact caused me to desire every inmate of my family to give me immediate notice of the appearance of anything unusual in the heavens , and thus led directly to the observations above detailed .

