XIII .
A Letter of Dr. John Wallis , to Mr. Andrew Fletcher ; concerning the strange Effects reported of Music in Former Times , beyond what is to be found in Later Ages .
SIR , Oxford , Aug. 18 .
1698 .
THE Question you lately proposed to me ( by a Friend of yours ) concerning Music ; was not , Whence it comes to pass that Music hath so great an Influence or Efficacy on our Affections , Passions , Motions , &amp;c. But whence it is that these great effects which are reported of Music in Former Times , ( of Orpheus , Amphion , &amp;c. ) are not as well found to follow upon the Music of Later Ages .
If that first had been the Question ; Whence it is that Music Operates on our Fancies , Affections , Passions , Motions , &amp;c. and not ours only , but of other Animals , ( for it is manifest that Birds and Beasts are affected with Musical Notes as well as Men : ) And even as things inanimate ) for it is well known , that of two Unisone-Strings , though at some distance , if one be struck , the other will move .
) I say , if this were the Question , I must , in answer to it , have discoursed of the Nature of Sounds , produced by some Subtle Motions in the Air , propagated and continued to the Ear and Organs of Hearing , and thence communicated to the Animal Spirits ; which excite suitable Imaginations , Affections , Passions , &amp;c. and these attended with conformable Motions and Actions , and according to the various Proportions , Measures , and Mixtures of such Sounds , there do arise various Effects in the Mind or Imagination , suitable thereunto .
Thus the rough Music of Drums and Trumpets , is apt to produce Courage and Fierceness in Martial Minds ; and more or less according to the Degrees of Roughness .
And sweeter Sounds of more sedate Music , are apt to excite softer Passions , and of different Kinds and Degrees , according to the Slowness or Swiftness , Loudness or Calmness , Acuteness or Gravity , and the various Measures and Mixtures of such Musical Sounds .
The Animal Spirits being apt to receive Impressions answerable to those sub~ Motions , communicated to them from the Organs of Hearing .
But the Question you move is only of the Comparative Effects of Music reported to have been in the Days of old , beyond what appears upon that of later Ages .
In answer to which , there are many things to be considered : 1 .
I take it for granted , That much of those Reports is highly Hyperbolical , and next door to Fabulous ; according to the Humour of those Ages , termed by Historians , Tempus Mythicum , ( the Fabulous Age ) for ( whatever may be thought of Men , Beasts and Birds , no Man can think that the Trees and Stones did Dance after their Pipe .
And even in more modest Times , the Poetical Stories of Olympus , Atlas , and other Mountains , reaching up to Heaven , are much beyond what is now to be found in those Parts where they are said to have been ; and many Mountains now well known ( as the Alps , the Apennines , the Pike of Teneriff ) are much higher than their Atlas or-Olympus .
And their Famed Tyber is but a Ditch compared with our Thames .
And like Abatements we must allow to the Hyperbolical Elogies of their Music .
2 .
We must consider , That Music ( to any tolerable Degree ) was then ( if not a New , at least ) a Rare Thing , which the Rusticks , on whom it is reported to have had such Effects , had never heard before : and on such , a little Music will do great Feats .
As we find at this Day , a Fiddle or a Bag-pipe , among a Company of Country Fellows and Wenches ( who never knew better ) or at a Country Morrice-Dance , will make them skip and shake their Heels notably .
( And the like heretofore , to a Sheperd 's Reed or Oaten-Pipe ) And when some such thing happened amongst those Rusticks of Old , That , with somewhat of Hyperbole , would make a great Noise .
3 .
We are to consider that their Music ( even after it came to some good Degree of Perfection ) was much more plain and simple than ours now a-days .
They had not Consorts of Two , Three , Four or more Parts or Voices : But one single Voice or single Instrument , apart ; which , to a rude Ear , is much more taking than more compounded Music .
And we find that a simple Jig , sung or played on a Fiddle or Bag Pipe , doth more affect a company of Rusticks , than a set of Vials and Voices .
For that is at a Pitch not above their Capacity ; whereas this other confounds it , with a great Noise , but nothing distinguishable to their Capacity .
Like some delicate Sauce made up of a Mixture of many Ingredients ; which may yield an agreeable Taste , but not so as to distinguish the particular Relish of any one : But Honey or Sugar by it self , they could understand and Relish with a more particular Gusto .
4 .
We are to consider , That Music with the Ancients was of a larger extent than what we call Music now a-days : For Poetry and Dancing ( or comely Motion ) were then accounted parts of Music , when Music arrived to some Perfection .
Now we know that Verse of it self , if in good Measures and Affectionate Language , and this set to a Musical Tune , and sung by a decent Voice , and accompanied but with soft Music ( instrumental ) if any , such as not to drown or obscure the ~ Expressions ( like what we call Recitative-Musick ) will work strangely upon the Ear , and move Affections suitable to the Tune and Ditty ; ( whether Brisk and Pleasant , or Soft and Pitiful , or Fierce and Angry , or Moderate and Sedate ) especially if attended with a Gesture and Action suitable .
( For it is well known , that suitable Acting on a Stage , gives great Life to the Words .
) Now all this together ( which were all Ingredients in what they called Music ) must needs operate Strongly on the Fancies and Affections of ordinary People , unacquainted with such kind of Treatments .
For , if the deliberate reading of a Romance ( when well penned ) will produce Mirth , Tears , Joy , Grief , Pity , Wrath or Indignation , suitable to the respective Intents of it , much more would it so do , if accompanied with all those Attendants .
5 .
You will ask perhaps , Why may not all this be now done , as well as that ?
I answer , no doubt it may , and with like Effect , if an Address be made , in proper Words with moving Arguments , in just Measures ( Poetical or Rhetorical ) with the Emphatick Words , Words set in signal Places , pronounced with a good Voice , and a true Accent , and attended with a decent Gesture ; and all these suitably adjusted to the Passion , Affection , or temper of Mind , particularly designed to be produced , ( be it joy , Love , Grief , Pity , Courage or Indignation ) will certainly now , as well as then , produce great Effects upon the Mind , especially upon a Surprise , and where Persons are not otherwise pre-engag 'd : And if so managed as that you be ( or seem to be ) in earnest ; and , if not over-acted by apparent Affectation .
6 .
~ We are to consider that the usual Design of what we now call Music , is very different from that of the Ancients .
What we now call Music , is but what they called Harmonic ; which was but one Part of their Music ( consisting of Words , Verse , Voice , Tune , Instrument and Acting ) and we are not to expect the same Effect of one Piece as of the whole .
And , of their Harmonic at first , when we are told ( by a great Hyperbole ) that it did draw after it , not Men only , but Birds , Beasts , Trees and Stones : this is no more ( bating the Hyperbole ) but what we now see daily in a Country-Town ; when Boys , and Girls , and Country-solk , run after a Bag-pipe or a Fiddler ( especially if they had never seen the like before ) ; of which we are apt ( even now ) to say , All the Town runs after the Fiddler ; or , the Fiddler draws all the Town after him ; or , as when they flock about a Ballad-Singer in a Fair , or the Morrice-Dancers at a Whit sund Ale .
And all their Hyperbole 's can signify no more but this ; when their Music was but a Reed or an open Pipe .
7 .
It 's true , that when Music was arrived to greater Perfection , it was then applied to particular Designs of exciting this or that particular Affection , Passion or Temper of Mind ; ( as Courage to Soldiers in the Field ; Love , in an Amorous Addrels ; Tears and Pity , in a Doleful Ditty ; Fury and Indignation , in a Fiercer Tune ; and a Sedate Temper when applied to compose or pacify a Furious Quarrel ; ) the Tunes and Measures being suitably adapted to such Designs .
8 .
But such Designs as those , seem almost quite neglected in our present Music .
The chief Design now , in our most accomplished Music , being to please the Ear ; when , by a sweet Mixture of different Parts and Voices , with just Cadences and Concords intermix 'd , a Grateful Sound is produced to please the Ear ; ( as a Cook 's well tempered Sauce doth the Palate ; ) which to a common Ear is only a confused Noise of they know not what ( though somewhat Pleasing ) while only the judicious Musician can discern and distinguish the just Proportions .
9 .
It is true , that even this Compound Music admits of different Characters ; some is more Brisk and Airy ; others more Sedate and Grave ; others more Languid ; as the different Subjects do require .
But that which is most proper to excite particular Passions or Dispositions , is such as is more simple and uncompounded : such as a Nurses Languid Tune , lulling her Babe to sleep ; or a continued reading in an even Tone ; or even the soft Murmur of a little Rivulet , running upon Gravel or Pebbles , inducing a quiet Repose of the Spirits : And contrariwise , the Briskness of a Jig , on a Kit or Violine , exciting to Dance .
Which are more Operative to such particular Ends , than an elaborate Composition of Full Music : Which Two differ as much as that of a Cook 's mixing a Sauce to make it Palatable ; and that of a Physician mixing a Potion for curing a particular Distemper , or procuring a just Habit of Body ( where yet , a little Sugar to sweeten it may not do amiss .
) 10 .
To conclude then ; If we aim only at pleasing the Ear , by a sweet Consort , I doubt not but our modern Compositions may equal , if not exceed those of the Ancients : Amongst whom I do not find any Foot-steps of what we call several Parts or Voices , ( as Bass , Treble , Mean , &amp;c. sung in Consort ) answering each other to complete the Music .
But if we would have our Music so adjusted as to excite particular Passion , Affections , or Temper or Mind ( as that of the Ancients is supposed to have done ) we must then imitate the Physician rather than the Cook ; and apply more simple Ingredients , fitted to the Temper we would produce .
For in the sweet Mixture of compounded Music , one thing doth so correct another , that it doth not operate strongly any one way .
And this , I doubt not , but a judicious Composer may so effect , ( that with the Help of such Hyperbole 's , as with which the Ancient Music is wont to be set off ) our Music may be said to do as great Feats as any of theirs .
I am , SIR , Your very Humble Servant , JOHN WALLIS .

