Further Researches on the Polarity of the Diamagnetic Force .
" By JOHN TYNDALL , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1855 .
The author commences by referring to the results recorded in the Bakerian Lecture for 1855 .
The fact of diamagnetic polarity was there established , by permitting fixed magnets to act upon a moveable bar of bismuth , encircled by an electric current ; and , from the deflections of the bar , the character of the force acting upon it was inferred .
The experiments recorded in the present paper may be regarded as complementary to the above .
Here diamagnetic bars , suitably excited , are permitted to act upon an astatic system of steel magnets , and from the deflections of the system , the polarity of the bodies acting upon it is inferred .
An experiment of the nature here indicated was made , three years ago , 3c by Professor W. Weber ; but , notwithstanding his known skill and accuracy as an experimenter , his results did not command general conviction .
The author sketches the arguments that have been urged against the inferences which M. Weber has drawn from his experiments , and the conditions laid down by those who urged these arguments , for the rigorous demonstration of diamagnetic polarity .
In the present paper these conditions are accepted and fulfilled .
To arrive at an exact notion of the value of M. Weber 's experiments , the author thought it best to operate with an instrument similar to that used by M. Weber himself .
He has to thank the latter philosopher for the plan of an apparatus more delicate than any which has been hitherto used , which plan was carried out in an efficient manner by that able mechanician , Leyser of Leipzig .
The instrument consists essentially of two spirals of covered copper wire , about eighteen inches long , firmly attached to a massive slab of mahogany .
The slab is attached by brass bolts to the solid masonry of the Royal Institution , so as to have the spirals in a vertical position .
Above the spirals is a wooden wheel , with a grooved periphery , and below them a similar one .
The wheels are united by an endless string , which communicates motion from one of them to the other .
To this string the cylinders submitted to examination are attached ; and by turning the lower wheel with a suitable key , the cylinders can be caused to move up and down within the spirals .
Two steel bar magnets are arranged astatically , connected by a rigid brass junction , and so suspended that the magnets are in a horizontal plane .
The two magnets have the two spirals between them , and have their poles opposite the centres of the spirals .
TWhen therefore a current is sent through the spirals .
it exerts no more action upon the magnets than the central , or neutral point of a magnet would do .
If the bars within the spirals be perfectly central , they also will present these neutral points to the suspended magnets , and hence exert no action upon them .
But if the key be so turned that the two ends of the diamagnetic bars shall act upon the magnets , then , if these bars be polar , the intensity and character of their polarity will be indicated by the deflections of the magnets .
Here , then , we have not only the action of the earth neutralized , but a turning force is brought to bear upon the suspended system four times that which would come into play if only a single spiral and a single pole were made use of .
The mode of observation is the same as that applied by Gauss to his magnetometer .
The instrument is enclosed on all sides from external air-currents ; the magnets have a mirror attached to them which moves as they move , and which is observed by means of a telescope and scale placed at a distance of about ten feet from the instrument .
When cylinders of bismuth are submitted to experiment , a very marked deflection is produced , indicating , on the part of the bismuth , a polarity opposed to that of iron .
This is the only substance which has hitherto been examined ; and against M. Weber 's results , obtained with this metal , it has been urged that the deflection observed by him was due to induced currents , aroused in the bismuth by its mechanical motion up and down within the spiral .
With regard to this objection , as bearing upon the author 's experiments , he remarks , first , that the deflection produced is permanent , which could not be the case if the effect were due to induced currents , which vanish instantaneously .
Secondly , if the effect were due to induction , it would be shown in the most exalted degree by the best conductors .
Now antimony is less diamagnetic than bismuth , but it is a better conductor .
The deflection produced by it , however , shows that it is its diamagnetic quality , and not its conductive quality , which is effective ; the deflection is less than that of bismuth .
Copper is fifty times a better conductor than bismuth , but its diamagnetic capacity is nearly nil ; it produces no sensible action upon the magnets , which could not possibly be the case were the result due to induction .
Again , a quantity of bismuth was powdered , and the powder suffered to become so tarnished that it was unable to conduct voltaic electricity .
Tubes filled with this powder produced effects almost as striking as those produced by the massive cylinders of bismuth .
But the experiments have been extended to a great number of insulators , with the same result .
Heavy-glass , sulphur , calcareous spar , statuary marble , nitre , phosphorus , wax , and other insulators , have been examined , and proved polar .
Both paramagnetic and diamagnetic liquids have also been embraced in the examination , and the polarity of both established .
Thus every objection that has been raised against the polarity of the diamagnetic force has been removed , and an amount of evidence accumulated in its favour , which places it amongst the most firmly established truths of science ,

