III .
" Further Observations on the Planet Mars .
" By JOHN PHILLIPS , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , F.GoS .
, Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received January 12 , 1865 .
The return of Mars to his periodical opposition with the sun has enabled me to offer a few observations on this planet , in addition to those which on a former occasion I had the honour to present to the Society t. Among * Admiral Smyth appears to have always maintained that the results of telescopic observation on the nebulh were insufficient to support the opinion that all these objects were probably of stellar constitution .
See his ' Cycle of Celestial Objects , ' vol. i. p. 316 ; and his ' Speculum Hartwellianum , ' pp. 111-114 .
t Proceedings of the Royal Society , 1863 .
42 [ Janl .
26 , the subjects then suggested for consideration was the permanence of the main features of light and shade which had been recognized by many observers .
Another question requiring attention referred to the fogginess or seeming cloudiness of the planet , also noticed by many observers , some of whom represented what might be thought effects of currents in the atmosphere round him .
Again , it was a matter for further research whether the colours of what we suppose to be land and sea ( the reddish hue of the land , and the grey aspect of the sea ) were capable of explanation by any peculiarity of the soil or atmosphere , and whether , from the phenomena of snows visible about the poles and elsewhere , the climate of Mars could be estimated on trustworthy grounds .
My observations are too few to furnish answers for all these questions ; but I have something to say in reply to some of them , though the distance of Mars from the Earth during the late opposition was too great to allow of such close scrutiny as in 1862 .
First , then , in respect of the permanence of the main features of the planet .
I submit several drawings* made between the 14th November and 13th December ( both inclusive ) , the dates being marked on each , for comparison with others made in 1862 , partly by Mr. Lockyer , partly by myself ; from which it will immediately appear that no appreciable change has occurred in the main outlines of land and sea , in the longitudes observed .
A certain fogginess has been noticed , especially on the 18th and 20th November , such as does not commonly occur with Jupiter or Saturn ; but it seemed to be due to no essential circumstance of the planet , for it grew less and less as the observation approached the meridian .
The colour of the larger masses of land is the same as formerly observed , but fainter from distance ; and the sea is grey and shadowy , but without the very distinct greenish hue which was noticed in 1862 .
Finally , the snows round the south pole appeared much less extensive than in 1862 , and were not really observable with distinctness except on a few evenings .
Snowy surfaces , scarcely more defined , but much more extensive , were observed in parts of the northern regions , not immediately encircling the pole ( which was invisible ) , but in two principal and separate tracts estimated to reach 40 ?
or 45 ?
from the pole .
On one occasion ( 30th November ) two practised observers ( Mr. Luff and Mr. Bloxidge ) noticed with me one of these gleaming masses of snow , very distinctso much so , that , as happened with the south polar snow in 1862 , it seemed to project beyond the circular outline--an optical effect , no doubt , and due to the bright irradiation .
This white mass reached to about 40 ?
or 45 ?
from the pole , in the meridian of 30 ?
on my globe of Mars .
Another mass was noticed on the 14th and 18th November , in long .
225 ?
, and extending to lat. 50 ? .
In each case the masses reached the visible limb .
The small extent of the snow visible at the further pole may be truly the effect of the position of the planet .
If we remember that on this occasion the axis of Mars was nearly ( within about 6 ?
or 8 ?
) at right angles to the line of sight , while in 1862 it was oblique ( about 26 ?
) , we shallperceive that though the snow about the south pole were really as extensive in 1864 as it appeared to be in 1862 , it could not possibly appear even nearly so large , and in fact could barely be seen ( as it was ) under the very small angle which it would subtend on the limb .
There may , however , have been really less snow round the south pole , in consequence of the longer action of the summer heat on Mars in 1864 than in 1862 .
The ruddy tint of the surface of the broad tracts of land is so constantly observed in these parts as to claim to be regarded as characteristic of some peculiarity in them-some special kind of terrestrial substance for example ' .
On the other hand , the tint is so much like that of our evening clouds as to suggest the probability of its being due to the deep atmospheric zone which has been often ascribed to this planet , though perhaps , until of late years , on insufficient grounds t. On this head spectral analysis will probably enlighten us .
If , however , there be such a deep covering of atmosphere , it might explain some facts regarding the climate which otherwise appear unaccountable .
Some considerable amount of vaporous atmosphere there must be , to give origin to the beds of snow which alternately invest and desert the opposite poles , if indeed either pole be ever quite free from snow .
In different Mlartial years the extent of the snow appears nearly the same under nearly similar conditions .
Compare , for instance , Herschel 's drawing for August 16 , 1830 + , with my sketch for September 27 , 1862 ?
, and that now presented for November 20 , 1864 .
Snows appear to have been observed in mass as far from the south pole as lat. 40 ? .
This occurred in April 1856 , according to a drawing by Mr. De la Rue : snow in lat. 50 ?
or perhaps 4.5 ?
North is the result of my observations during this late opposition .
Assuming this to be the geographical limit of the freezing mean winter temperature , we see at once that it differs but little from that of the earth , on which the isothermal line of 32 ?
varies , according to local peculiarities , from the latitude of 40 ?
to that of 60 ? .
If the snows on the land of Mars be compared with those on the northern tracts of Asia and America , they will be found not to extend further .
And as the snows , if they do not actually disappear , are reduced to small areas about either pole in its warm season , thus showing the mean summer temperature there to be not less than 32 ?
, this confirms the general impression that the variations of the climate of Mars are comprised * " In this planet we discern , with perfect distinctness , the outlines of what may be continents and seas .
Of these , the former are distinguished by that ruddy colour which characterizes the light of this planet ( which always appears red and fiery ) , and indicates , no doubt , an ochrey tinge in the genaeral soil , like what the red sandstone districts on the earth may possibly offer to the inhabitants of Mars , only more decided .
Contrasted with this ( by a general law in optics ) the seas , as we may call them , appear greenish."Herschel 's Astronomy ( ed. 1833 ) , p. 279 .
t " It has been surmised to have a very extensive atmosphere , but on no sufficient or even plausible grounds."-Ibid .
p. 279 , note. .
Treatise on Astronomy ( ed. 1833 ) , pl. 1 . ?
Proc. Roy .
Soc. 1863 .
44 [ Jan. 26 , within nearly the same thermic limits as those of the earth .
In all the broad belt of 30 ?
or 40 ?
from the equator , the temperature seems to be such as always to allow of evaporation ; between that limit and the pole , snows gather and disperse according to the season of the year , while for about 8 ?
or 10 ?
more or less round the pole , the icy circle seems to be perennial .
The relative mean distances from the Sun of Mars and the earth being taken at 100 and 152 , the relative solar influence must be on Mars 100 to 231 on the earth ; so that the surface of the more distant planet might rather be expected to have shown signs of being fixed in perpetual frost , than to have a genial temperature of 40 ?
to 50 , if not 50 ?
to 60 ?
, as the earth has , taken on the whole .
How is this to be accounted for ?
Of two conceivable influences which may be appealed to , viz. very high interior heat of the planet , and some peculiarity of atmosphere , we may , while allowing some value to each , without hesitation adopt the latter as the more immediate and effective .
To trace the effects in detail must be impracticable ; but in the general we may remark that as a diminution of the mass of vaporous atmosphere round the earth would greatly exaggerate the difference of daily and nightly , and of winter and summer temperature , so the contrary effect would follow from an augmentation of it .
Applying this to Mars , we shall see that his extensive atmosphere would reduce the range of summer and winter , and of daily and nightly temperature .
It would , moreover , augment the mean temperature by the peculiar action of such an atmosphere , which , while readily giving passage to the solar ra s , would resist the return ofdark heatrays from the terrestrial surface , and prevent their wasteful emission into space * .
This effect obtains now on the earth , which is rendered warmer , as well as more equable in temperature , by the atmosphere than it would be without it .
It is conceivable that it may obtain upon Mars to a greater degree , even without supposing the atmosphere to be materially different in its nature from that round the earth , or the surface of Mars to have any specially favourable or exceptional characters for the absorption and radiation of heat .
It seems , however , requisite to suppose a greater communication of heat from the interior of the planet ; for otherwise the additional vapour , to which the warming effect is in the main to be ascribed , could not probably be supported in the atmosphere .
On the whole we may , perhaps , be allowed to believe that Mars is habitable .
Here , so far as direct observations upon the aspect of Mars are available , we may pause .
The researches of the Radcliffe Observer , lately in Oxford , and formerly at Greenwich , have , however , brought into view a peculiarity in the constitution of this planet which deserves special notice .
Its figure is spheroidal , as might be expected from the general laws of planetary form ; but it is spheroidal in so high a degree as to be quite exceptional in this respect .
Computing by the known rotation-velocity , and the admitted measures and mass of MLars , its ellipticity should be about:~ .
Mr. Main 's observations with the splendid Oxford Heliometer give as the most probable result , the large fraction of.9for 1862 .
This excellent astronomer has continued his observations during the late opposition .
My own attempts to obtain the ellipticity with the micrometer eyepiece reading to 0"'2 of arc failed to give satisfactory measures .
The ellipticity , indeed , seemed to be small , and was merely observable , not really measurable or even to be approximately estimated by the help of this apparatus .

