March 29 , 1849 .
GEORGE RENNIE , Esq. , Treasurer , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following papers were read:1 .
" Examination of the Proximate Principles of some of the Lichens."-Part II .
By John Stenhouse , Esq. , F.R.S. Gyrophora pustulata .
The author states that this lichen , which is the 1 " Tripe de Roche " of the Canadian hunters , has been long employed by the manufacturers of archil , though the quantity of colouring matter contained in it is by no means considerable , being little more than a twelfth of that in the Roccella MJontagnei .
The Gyrophora pustulata , on which the author operated , was brought from Norway , where it is annually collected in considerable quantity for the manufacture of archil .
The colouring principle was extracted by maceration with milk of lime , and was precipitated in a gelatinous state by neutralizing the lime solution by imriatic acid , precisely in the way so frequently'described in the author 's former paper ( Phil. Trans. 184 &lt; 8 ) .
The precipitate was gently dried , and then dissolved in hot spirits of wine .
On the cooling of the liquid , the colouring principle was deposited in small soft crystals , which by digestion with animal charcoal and repeated crystallizations were rendered quite colourless .
This principle , to which the author has given the name of Gyrophoric acid , is almost insoluble in either hot or cold water , and is also much less soluble in hot spirits of wine than either orsellic , erythric , or any of the analogous colouring principles .
It is neutral to test-paper , and possesses no saturating power , as the smallest quantity of an alkali gives its solutions an alkaline reaction , Gyrophoric acid strikes a bright red fugitive colour with hypochlorite of lime ; and when macerated with a solution of ammonia , it is slowly converted into a purplish-red colouring matter , similar to that yielded by the analogous acids under the same circumstances .
When subjected to analysis , the formula of gyrophoric acid was found to be C3 [ I , 015 , .
Gyrophoric acid when boiled for some hours in alcohol yields an ether similar in appearance and properties to the erythric and lecarioric ethers ; its formula is C.1 H0+ C , , H-.s8 On .
Gyrophoric acid unites with the alkalies and metallic oxides , but the compounds which it forms possess little stability and cannot be procured of an uniform composition .
Lecanora tartarea .
This lichen , like the Gyrophora pustulata , has been employed from an early period in the manufacture of archil .
It is found in considerable abundance in the hilly districts of the northern parts both of Scotland and Ireland .
The lichen on which the author operated came from Norway .
He found it also to contain gyrophoric acid , in lmuch about the same quantity as the Gyrophora pustulata .
This fact was established by the analysis of the acid itself and of its ether compound , Brom-orcine .
In the author 's former paper on the proximate principles of the lichens , read before the Royal Society on the 3rd of February 184,8 , he described a crystalline body obtained by cautiously adding bIromine to an aqueous solution of orcine .
In this second part he states that , in the 'Comptes Rendus ' for August of the same year , Messrs. Laurent and Gerhardt describe the very same compound obtained in precisely the same way , without even hinting that it had been previously discovered .
These gentlemen however give a different formula for the compound , viz. C14 iHBr3 04 , or orcine in which three equivalents of hydrogen are replaced by three equivalents of bromine ; and the author is disposed to adopt this formula , as , on repeating the analysis of the compound , he found that he had somewhat over-estimated the amount of bromine contained in it , while its other constituents were determined correctly enough .
Beta-orcine .
This substance , described by the author in the Philosophical Magazine for July 1848 , may be obtained from usnic acid , either by destructively distilling it , or by acting on it with alkalies .
Beta-orcine crystallizes very beautifully il four-sided prisms surmounted at either end by four-sided pyramids .
These crystals have a brilliant lustre , and are from three quarters of an inch to an inch long .
Their solution strikes a fugitive bright-red colour with hypochlorite of lime , and with a solution of ammonia it yields a permanent blood-red colouring matter which becomes darker on standing .
The formula of beta-orcine , which however is merely empirical , is C16 HIo 04 .
Quintonitrated erythromannite .
In his former paper on the lichens , the author has described , under the name of pseudo-orcine , a remarkably beautiful crystalline body which is obtained by boiling either picro-erythrine , or erythric acid , with an excess of lime or baryta .
This substance he then regarded as very analogous to mannite both in its composition and properties , and this view having been amply verified by an experiment which he has recently made , he has been induced to change the name of this compound to erythro-mannite , as at once indicating its origin and its most striking properties .
After referring to the discovery by Messrs. Flores Domonte and Menard , of " Mannite quintonitrique " or mannite in which five equivalents of water are replaced by five equivalents of nitric acid , and which possesses the remarkable property of detonating so violently when struck by a hammer that M. Sobrero has proposed employing it , instead of fulminate of mercury , in the manufacture of percussion-caps , the author states that when erythro-mannite is treated with fuming nitric acid , in exactly the same way as mannite , it yields a perfectly analogous compound , or erythro-mannite in which five equivalents of water are replaced by five equivalents of nitric acid .
This compound , which he has called quintonitrated erythromannite , is also insoluble in water , but crystallizes out of hot spirits in large flat crystals resembling those of benzoic acid , only larger and exhibiting a much more pearly lustre .
Quintonitrated erythromannite also detonates with great violence when it is mixed with a little dry sand , and is strongly struck with a hammer .
In order to exhibit more distinctly the close analogy which subsists between the four compounds , their rational formulam are given , viZ .
Mannite ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
= C12 H14 012 ; Erythro-mannite ... ... ... ... ... = Cll H14 0ll ; Quintonitrated mannite ... ... ... = C12 1H 07 + 5NO5 ; Quintonitrated crythromannite = Cl , H9 O +5NO5 .

