" Examination of the Proximate Principles of the Lichens .
" By John Stenhouse , Esq. , Ph. D. The author , after adverting to the labours of Robiquet , Heeren , Dumas , and Kane in the investigation of the proximate principles of the lichens , especially of those which yield red colouring matter with ammonia , and also of the more recent inquirers on this subject , such as Schunck , Rochleder , Heldt and Knop , who have greatly extended our knowledge of this interesting but difficult department of organic research , proceeds to state that nearly two years ago his attention was directed by Dr. Pereira to a kind of Orcella weed , which had been recently imported into London from the Cape of Good Hope , but which had been rejected by the London archil manufacturers as being unfit for their use , from the small quantity of colouring matter it yields when subjected to the usual process .
With a view to ascertain whether or not the red dyes obtained from the various lichens result from the action of ammonia on a certain crystalline principle , described by Schunck under the name of lecanorine , the author procured quantities of the several lichens usually employed by the archil makers , and subjected them to investigation ; the minute details of which , together with the results , are given at length in the present paper .
The specimens examined are the following : I. South American variety of Roccella tinctoria .
The lichen was cut into small pieces and macerated with a large quantity of water for some hours , then quick-lime was added .
A yellow solution was obtained , from which muriatic acid precipitated the colouring matter , as a bulky gelatinous mass ; this was washed , dried on a plate of gypsum , and dissolved in hot spirits of wine ( not boiling ) .
The solution on cooling deposited the colouring principle in small white prismatic needles arranged in stars .
This is1 .
AlphaOrsellic acid ( hydrated ) ... ... ... .
C32 H1 O3 + HO and its salt of barytaAlphaOrsellicte of baryta ... ... ... ... .
C32 H15 013 BaO 2 .
Alpha-Orsellesic acid was obtained by mixing crude gelatinous orsellic acid with a little water , neutralizing with lime or baryta , and precipitating with muriatic acid .
A gelatinous hydrate is obtained , which may be purified by solution in dilute alcohol and crystallization .
The composition of this acid and its baryta salt is as follows : AlphaOrsellesic acid ... ... C , , H , 07+ HO AlphaOrsellesiate of baryta C , , H 07 + BaO .
This acid gives a fugitive bluish-red or violet tint with hypochlorite of lime .
Orsellic acid gives a deep blood-red tint , quickly changing to yellow .
3 .
Orsellesic ether , Cl6 H , 07 + C4 H5 O , is obtained from allha-orsellic acid by boiling in strong alcohol , evaporating to dryness , and dissolving in boiling water .
It crystallizes on cooling in long flat needles , having a yellowish colour from adhering resin .
II .
Roccella tinctoriafrom the Cape of Good Hope .
By processes similar to those just mentioned , this lichen yielded1 .
Beta-Orsellic acid ... ... ... .
C34 H17 O4 + HO Beta-Orselliate of baryta ... .
C34 H,7 014 + BaO .
2 .
Beta-Orsellesic acid ( formula to be given hereafter ) .
3 .
An ether compound , which is probably orsellesic ether .
By three experiments its composition was found to beI .
II .
IlI .
C ... ... ... 60-82 60-75 60-83 H ... ... ... 6'27 6-15 6-27 O ... ... ... .
32-91 33-10 33'00 100-00 100-00 100-00 4 .
Roccellinin.-Obtained by drying the gelatinous mass which is precipitated from the lime solution by muriatic acid , and boiling in strong spirit .
The ether compound dissolves , and roccellinin remains behind .
It is purified by repeated crystallization from strong spirit , aided by animal charcoal , and presents itself in soft hair-like crystals about an inch long , arranged in stars .
It is a very indifferent substance , appearing however to be a feeble acid .
Its empirical formula is Cs H17 105 .
III .
Roccella Montagnei .
By similar treatment yielded1 .
Erythric acid ... ... . .
C20 H 09 HO .
This acid gives a blood-red colour with hypochlorite of lime .
2 .
Erythric ether ... . .
C20 HIo 09 + C4 H5 O. 3 .
Erythric methylic ether C20 H , , 09 C2 H3 0 .
This ether crystallizes in longer and narrower prisms than erythric ether .
4 .
Erythrelesic acid is analogous to alphaand beta-orsellesic acids .
5 .
Picro-erythrin.-By neutralizing erythric acid with lime or baryta , and throwing down erythrelesic acid with muriatic acid , a mother-liquid is obtained containing picro-erythrin , from which that substance may be separated in the form of yellowish crystals ; and these may be purified and decolorized by repeated crystallization from hot water aided by the use of animal charcoal .
Picro-erythrin gives a blood-red colour with hypochlorite of lime .
Its empirical formula is C34 H4 020 .
6 .
Pseudo-orcin , of which the empirical formula is CI0 H13 00 .
It is obtained by boiling the lime solution of R. Montagnei till it is reduced to one-fourth of its bulk , passing carbonic acid in excess through the liquid , and evaporating the filtered liquid to the consistence of a syrup ; this is introduced into a flask and digested with a large quantity of ether , which dissolves orcin and leaves pseudoorcin .
On being crystallized two or three times from strong spirit , it is obtained in large shining colourless crystals .
Still larger crystals may be obtained from an aqueous solution .
Hypochlorite of lime has no action upon it .
The author then gives a mode of extracting the colouring principles of the lichens , so as to make them portable for commercial purposes .
The extraction might be performed in the country where the lichens grow , by cutting them up into small pieces , macerating in milk of lime , neutralizing with muriatic or acetic acid , collecting the gelatinous precipitate on cloths , and drying it at a gentle heat .
He also suggests two modes of estimating the quantity of colouring matter in the lichens .
1 .
By macerating a known quantity of the lichen in milk of lime , and adding bleaching powder of known strength from an alkalimeter till all colour disappears from the liquid , and noting the quantity of solution required .
It is thus found thatAngola lichen requires ... ... ... ... 200 measures 1-00 American lichen requires ... ... ... .
120. .
060 Cape lichen requires ... ... ... ... .
35. .
0-17 Lecanora Tartarea ( from Germany , l 25 0 12 near Giessen ) requires ... ... . .
2 .
By extracting the lichen with milk of lime , precipitating with acetic acid , collecting the precipitate on a weighed filter , drying and weighing it .
IV .
Evernia Prunastri .
1 .
Evernic acid is obtained by extracting the lichen with milk of lime , precipitating with muriatic acid , drying the precipitate , and digesting in weak spirit till nearly two-thirds are dissolved .
The solution yields crystals of evernic acid .
The insoluble part is usnic acid .
Evernic acid yields only a slight yellow colour with hypochlorite of lime .
Formula of hydrated evernic acid. .
C34 H5 0O3 HO Formula of everniate of potash ... .
C34 H15 013+ KO Formula of everniate of baryta ... .
C34 H15 013 + BaO + Aq .
2 .
Evernesic acid is obtained by dissolving evernic acid in a slight excess of caustic potash , passing carbonic acid gas through the solution to saturation , and concentrating the solution : evernesiate of potash crystallizes out .
From this the acid may be separated by means of muriatic acid .
It gives a yellow colour with hypochlorite of lime .
Formula of hydrated acid ... ... . .
C18 H1 O7 +HO Formula of evernesiate of baryta. .
Cl8 H9 07 + BaO + Aq .
Formula of evernesiate of silver. .
C1 , gH9 07+ AgO .
Orcin .
This substance is always obtained when any of the colouring principles of the lichens which yield red dyes with ammonia are subjected to particular processes .
The best way of obtaining it pure is to boil the alpha- , or beta-orsellesic acid , or the erythrelesic acid in water for about an hour .
Carbonic acid is given off , and crystals of colourless orcin are deposited .
It gives a dark purple red colour with hypochlorite of lime , quickly changing into deep yellow .
Empirical formula ... ... .
C16 H , O7 .
Brom-orceide , CG6 H24 Br O13 ( empirical ) , is obtained by pouring bromine into a concentrated aqueous solution of orcin ; when pure it forms long white adhering needles ; it has no taste or smell .
Chlor-orceide , a similar compound , is obtained by passing chlorine gas through a solution of orcin .
Usnic Acid .
This principle is found in Usnea florida , U. hirta , U. plicala , U. barbata , Ramalinea calicaris , B. Froxinia , Evernia Prunastri , and Cladonia Rangeferina .
It is best obtained from Cladonia Rangeferina and Usneajforida , by the use of lime and muriatic acid .
Its empirical formula is C3 H17 014 .

