Examination of select Vegetable Products from India .
By JOHN STENHOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 14 , -Read December 6 , 1855 .
PART I. THROUGH the kindness of my esteemed friend Dr. ROYLE , I have been permitted to select such vegetable products from the extensive collection at the India House as seemed most likely to repay the trouble of investigation .
My attention during the last twelve months has been chiefly directed to three of these vegetable substances ; and the results of their examination I now take the liberty of submitting to the Royal Society , to be followed by those of the others as they may be completed .
Datisca cannabina .
The first of these substances which I examined consisted of a quantity of the roots of the Datisca cannabina , from Lahore , where this plant is employed to dye silk of a fast yellow colour .
The roots , which had been cut into pieces about six or eight inches long , were from one-half to three-quarters of an inch in thickness .
They had a deep yellow colour .
The leaves and smaller branches of the Datisca cannabina from the Levant have long been employed for a similar purpose in the South of France .
A decoction of the leaves of the Datisca cannabina was examined by BRACONNOT in 1816 , who discovered in it a crystallizable principle to which he gave the name of datiscine .
BRACONNOT , of course , did not subject this substance to analysis , but he described its appearance and properties in an exceedingly accurate manner* .
The observations of BRACONNOT had fallen into such entire oblivion , however , that for many years past , we find in most of the larger systems of chemistry the term datiscine used as synonymous with inuline .
Thus in BRANDE'S 'Chemistry , ' vol. ii .
page 1168 , we find it stated that a variety of names had been given to inuline , such as " dahline , datiscine , " &amp;c. In LOWIG 's ' Chemistry of Organic Compounds , ' vol. i. page 359 , the same error is repeated , where , under the article 'inuline , " the synonyms given are " dahline and datiscine .
" The bruised roots were extracted in a MOHR 's apparatus by long-continued digestion with wood-spirit .
The liquor obtained , which had a dark brown colour , was concentrated by distilling off a portion of the wood-spirit .
The brown syrupy liquid remaining in the retort , on being poured into open vessels and standing for some time , deposited a resinous matter containing merely traces of a crystalline substance .
When this syrupy liquid , however , was treated with about half its bulk of hot water , the greater portion of the brown resin was rapidly deposited , and the mother-liquor , having been poured off and left to slow spontaneous evapoiration , deposited a considerable quantity of an imperfectly crystallizable substance resembling grape-sugar .
'These crystals are impure datiscine , still retaining a considerable amount of resinous matter , to which the dark brown colour is owing .
They may be purified in various ways , advantage being taken of the grecater solibility of the resinous matter in alcohol or ether , than that of the datiscine .
By repeated crystallizations , therefore , from either of these liquids , the datiscine may be rendered almost perfectly colourless , the impurities remaining in the mother-liquor .
The following is the method which I have found , on the whole , most convenient .
The crude datiscine , while still moist , is strongly pressed between folds of blottingpaper ; it is then dissolved in alcohol , and again treated with water , which throws down the resin .
The diluted alcoholic solution , after standing some time , yields the datiscine in a much finer state .
On repeating this operation several times , the datiscine may be obtained perfectly pure .
In order to separate any traces of tannic acid which might have been present , I repeatedly added a concentrated solution of gelatine to the alcoholic solution of the datiscine , and after careful filtration , precipitated the datiscine in the way already described .
I could not , however , observe that the crystals of the datiscine , when gelatine had been employed in its preparation , were in the least degree dissimilar from the datiscine obtained in the usual way .
Properties of Datiscine.-Datiscine , when quite pure , is perfectly colourless , but unless great attention is paid to its purification , it usually has morie or less of a yellow colour , varying from pale to deep yellow , according to circumstances .
It is very soluble in alcohol , even in the cold , boiling alcohol dissolving almost any amount of it .
By slow spontaneous evaporation , its alcoholic solutions yield small silky needles arranged in groups .
Cold water does not dissolve much of it , but it is tolerably soluble in boiling water , the hot solutions on cooling depositing it in shining scales Ether does not dissolve much datiscine , but an ethereal solution , when allowed to evaporate as slowly as possible , yielded it in larger crystals than I could have obtained in any other way .
When water is added to an alcoholic solution of datiscine , no precipitate is immediately formed , unless the solution is greatly concentrated ; but on standing for some time , the datiscine separates in a very pure state , consisting of fine crystals having a pale yellow colour .
The datiscine prepared by this process was found to contain but a minute trace of ash .
When datiscine is heated to about 180 ?
C. , it melts , and if the heat is still further increased , it burns , evolving an odour of caramel , and leaves a voluminous charcoal .
If datiscine be heated in a close vessel while a stream of dry air is slowly passed over it , a small quantity of a crystalline substance sublimes .
Datiscine and its solutions have a very bitter taste ; and 142 though it does not produce any change upon test paper , I think there is reason to regard it as a feebly acid body .
It dissolves in solutions of the fixed alkalies and ammonia , as well as in lime and baryta water .
Their solutions have a deep yellow colour , which they lose on the addition of an acid , when the datiscine is precipitated , even acetic acid precipitating datiscine .
When its alkaline solutions are not too concentrated , and are neutralized while hot , the datiscine on cooling is deposited in small crystals .
The aqueous solution of datiscine is precipitated by neutral and basic acetates of lead , or chloride of tin .
These precipitates have a bright yellow colour .
Salts of copper produce greenish precipitates ; those of peroxide of iron deep brownish-green precipitates .
The datiscine employed in these experiments had been purified with gelatine .
The lead salts form such gelatinous precipitates , that they could not be washed , and therefore I was unable to employ them in determining the equivalents of datiscine .
Action of dilute Sulphuric Acid on Datiscine .
When an aqueous solution of datiscine is treated with a small quantity of sulphuric acid , the clear liquid , after being boiled for a few minutes , becomes turbid , and deposits a crystalline substance .
This is collected on a filter , and the clear liquid which passes through , after it has been made strongly alkaline by the addition of potash , and after being heated to 212 ?
, throws down suboxide of copper .
When the excess of sulphuric acid is removed from another portion of the solution , by neutralizing with carbonate of lead or baryta , it acquires a sweet taste ; and when evaporated to the consistence of a syrup , on standing for some time , it formed a semi-crystalline mass , closely resembling honey .
This experiment showed therefore that datiscine , like salicine and similar bodies , belongs to the class of glucosides , and is a copulated compound of sugar and another substance which I shall call datiscetine .
Datiscetine.-Datiscetine in its general appearance and properties closely resembles datiscine .
On a closer examination , however , these two substances are found to differ essentially , both in composition and properties .
Datiscine , when prepared by boiling a solution of pure datiscine with dilute sulphuric acid , precipitates in the state of fine needles , which are nearly colourless .
It is easily soluble in alcohol ; a hot alcoholic solution , on cooling , depositing the greater portion of it in crystalline groups .
It is almost insoluble in water , and consequently datiscetine is abundantly precipitated from its alcoholic solutions by the addition of water .
It dissolves in ether to almost any extent , and is deposited , on the evaporation of that liquid , in needles .
These properties of datiscetine enable us to obtain it in a tolerably pure state when even very impure datiscine is employed in its preparation .
The mother-liquors out of which datiscine has been crystallized , and which retain a large amount of impurities , can be used in the following way for the preparation of datiscetine .
These u2 143 liquors are first treated withi basic acetate of lead , the precipitate is collected on a filter and washed , and then , having been distributed thiough water , is decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen .
The solution which has filtered from the precipitated sulphide of lead , is then concentrated , and boiled with dilute sulphuric acid .
The datiscetine produced in this way can be easily separated from the resinous matter , as the latter is precipitated before the formation of the datiscetine by the acid , and adheres to the bottom of the flask .
By dissolving the datiscetine thus obtained in alcohol , and precipitating it by the addition of water , it is rendered tolerably pure .
Properties of Datiscetine.-Datiscetine has no taste .
When heated it melts like datiscine , but the heat required is much higher than is necessary for that body .
It crystallizes again on cooling .
By operating very cautiously , a portion of the datiscetine may be sublimed in crystals .
This sublimnate , however , appears to be altered datiscetine , for , when recrystallized out of ether , it has a sweet taste .
Datiscetine on burning does not emit the smell of caramel .
Datiscetine , like datiscine , dissolves in alkaline solutions , and is reprecipitated by the addition of an acid .
When an alcoholic solution of acetate of lead is added to one of datiscetine , also dissolved in alcohol , a finely coloured deep yellow precipitate is obtained , which can be easily washed both by alcohol and water .
This precipitate therefore was subjected to analysis .
Analysis of Datiscine and Datiscetine.-The lead salt of datiscetine , when subjected to analysis , gave the following results : I. 0'4555 grm. gave 0'2060 grm. PbO .
0'2655 grn. gave 0'3515 grm. CO , and 0'0405 grm. H1O .
II .
0'4310 grm. gave 0'1945 grin .
PbO .
III .
( from another preparation ) .
0'4170 grm. gave 0'1907 grm. PbO .
0'3170 grim .
gave 0'4195 grin .
CO2 and 0-0460 grin .
HO .
These analyses give the formula C3o H8 01o+2PbO .
Found .
Required .
I. II .
III .
C3 o= 180'0 36'63 36'11 36-09 H8 = 8'0 1.63 1*69 161 01o 80'0 1628 s 2PbO =223'4 45-46 45-22 45-13 45-73 Analysis of Datiscetine.-The different preparations were all dried at 1000 C. in a current of dry air , and burned in the gas furnace .
Datiscetine crystallized out of Alcohol .
I. 0'3970 grin .
gave 0'9155 grin .
CO2 and 0X1280 grn. HO .
II .
0-4455 grm. gave 1'0275 grm. COa and 0'1485 grm. HO .
Datiscine preparedfrom its alcoholic solution by the addition of WYater .
III .
0'2045 grn. gave 0'4715 grin .
CO , and 0'0665 grmi .
HO .
IV .
0'3680 grin .
gave 0'8505 grm. CO2 and 0'1245 grm. HO .
The per-centage results calculated from these analyses agree very closely with the formula deduced from the analyses of the lead salt , as shown in the following Table : Found .
Required .
I. II .
III .
IV .
C30=180 62-94 62*89 62*90 62*88 63.03 H10= 10 3-49 3-58 3'70 3.61 3-76 012= 96 3357 Analysis of Datiscine dried in a LIEBIG'S drying tube .
A. Datiscine crystallized out of alcohol .
I. 0'3890 grm. gave 0'7815 grin .
CO2 and 0'1780 grm. HO .
II .
0'3395 grm. gave 0'6770 grun .
CO2 and 0'1585 grm. HO .
B. Datiscine crystallized out of alcohol from another preparation .
I. 0'2785 grm. gave 0'5595 grm. CO2 and 0'1315 grin .
HIO .
II .
0'2905 grm. gave 0-5830 grm. CO2 and 0'1385 grim .
HO .
C. Datiscine prepared with gelatine and out of alcohol .
0'4145 grm. gave 0'8355 grn. CO2 and 0*1925 grin .
HO .
D. Datiscine separated from its alcoholic solution by the addition of water .
I. 0*1580 grm. gave 0'3135 grin .
CO2 and 0'0770 grm. HO .
II .
0'1980 grm. gave 0'3955 grm. CO2 and 0'0925 grmn .
HO .
E. Datiscine precipitated from its potash solution by the addition of acetic acid .
0'2985 grm. gave 0-5940 grm. CO2 and 0-1375 grm. HO .
The substance analysed in A. contained 0-3 to 04 per cent. of ash ; that in B. 0-2 to 0'25 pel cent. ; and that in C. 0)12 per cent. No allowance , however , was made for these amounts of ash in calculating the following numbers .
The datiscine used for the analyses D. and E. did not contain any appreciable quantity of ash .
The following are the per-centage numbers calculated from the above analyses : A. B. C. D. E. I. II. .
II .
I. II .
C ... ... 5479 54-38 54-79 54-73 54-97 54-11 54-48 54-27 H ... ... 508 5'19 5.25 5*29 5.16 5-41 5.19 5.12 0 ... ... ... 145 When the decomposition of datiscine into datiscetine and sugar is taken into consideration , it seems probable that the formula for datiscine isDatiscetine+Sugar =Datiscine C3 o H01 O,4 +C12 H,2 Ol2=C42 H , O , .
That formula requires C42=252 54'08 H22= 22 4*72 024=192 41'20 If the formula C421122024 be correct , the decomposition of datiscine would be analogous to salicine , which , when treated with dilute acid , gives Salicine =Sugar +Salicetine C26 H18 04 =C2 H12 012+ C14 H6 02 ; whilst when treated with emulsine , Salicine =Sugar +Saligenine-2HO .
C26 H11 O14=C12 H,2 012+C14 1 H,4 -2HO .
The above formula for datiscine is confirmed by the following determinations of sugar formed by treating a weighed quantity of datiscine with dilute sulphuric acid .
The quantity of sugar produced was estimated by FEHLING'S method with a standard solution of sulphate of copper .
Four determinations made in this way gave the following quantities of sugar for 100 parts of dry datiscine : I. 41[6 II .
395 III .
39'3 IV .
37'8 .
The calculation for the formula C42 H22 024 requirles 38'6 per cent. of sugar .
An attempt was made to confirm these determinations by the direct estimnation of the datiscetine formed during the decomposition of a given weight of datiscine by dilute sulphuric acid .
The numbers obtained , however , during different experiments did not correspond with each other , and were all much lower than theory required .
This however is not to be wondered at , as the datiscetine , though very differently soluble , is by no means absolutely insoluble in water .
Dilute hydrochloric acid was found , like sulphuric acid , to decotlpose the datiscine into sugar and datiscetine , and even on boiling an aqueous solution of pure datiscine for some hours traces of sugar could be detected ; thus showing that a small portion of the datiscine had been decomposed .
It has been shown by previous experiments , and analysis No. 8 , that datiscine may be dissolved in cold solutions of potash without decomposition .
When boiled , however , with a concentrated potash lye for some time , decomposition takes place , and the precipitate , thrown down by the addition of an acid , has all the properties of datiscetine .
In this respect , therefore , datiscine agrees with tannin and 146 similar glucosides , which yield the same products when acted upon by acids and alkalies ; tannin from nut-galls being equally resolved by acid and alkalies into gallic acid and grape-sugar ; A solution of datiscetine , when left for some time in a warm place in contact with yeast , did not ferment , and though etnulsine was also tried no separation of datiscetine was observed .
Action of Nitric Acid on Datiscine and Datiscetine .
When datiscetine is treated in the cold with nitric acid of ordinary strength , a violent reaction takes place , brown vapours are disengaged , and a resinous substance produced .
The heat evolved by the reaction is sufficient to continue it till all the resinous matter is dissolved and a dark red liquid produced , which after boiling becomes yellow , and when cautiously evaporated , deposits on cooling crystals of nitropicric acid .
If the reaction is not carried too far no oxalic acid is formed , and the nitropicric acid obtained is very pure , forming large crystals of a pale yellow colour .
The following experiments show that these crystals are really nitropicric acid .
When treated in the cold with a concentrated solution of hypochlorite of lirne , the very characteristic smell of chloropicrine is instantaneously observed .
The addition of a solution of potash to a second portion of the acid threw down crystals of very pure nitropicrate of potash , which , when subjected to analysis , gave 18s04 per cent. of potash , the calculated quantity required for nitropicrate of potash being 17-66 per cent. Datiscine treated in the same way yields nitropicric acid as well as oxalic acid .
The formation of nitropicric acid by the action of strong nitric acid on datiscine and datiscetine , rendered it highly probable , that , by employing dilute nitric acid , less highly oxidized prloducts of decormposition might be obtained .
Datiscetine was therefore boiled with dilute nitric acid , i. e. nitric acid with ten parts of water ; the crystals of datiscetine soon dissolved , and a yellow liquid was obtained , which when treated with a solution of perchloride of iron gave a blood-red colour .
When the original soluttion had cooled , pale yellow crystals were deposited .
These cryvstals were very soluble in hot water , and recrystallized on cooling .
They were likewise very soluble in alcohol and ether , and when deposited by slow evaporation from their alcoholic solutions , they formed nearly colourless crystals of considerable size , having a fine silky lustre .
When treated with hypochlorite of lime they did not evolve chloropicrine in the cold , but readily produced that compound when gently heated .
When they were cautiously heated between two watch-glasses , a portion of the substance sublimed in colourless needles .
When this acid was heated with an insufficient quantity of water to dissolve it , it melted and recrystallizedi on cooling .
These properties agree with those of nitrosalicylic acid .
In order to confirm this hypothesis the following salts were prepared .
On saturating a solution of the acid with carbonate of baryta , the baryta salt was obtained in yellow crystals .
From their solution ammonia threw down another 147 yellow-coloured baryta salt .
A solution of the acid likewise produced a crystallized lead salt .
The ammoniacal salt was obtained in orange-coloured needles by saturating the acid with ammonia and crystallizing in vacuo .
By double decomposition with the ammoniacal salt I prepared the silver combination , which , like all the others , agreed in its propelrties with MARCHAND'S description of nitrosalicylic acid salts .
When subjected to analysis , 0'1695 grn. of the silver salt gave 0'0630 grim .
of silver , equal to 37'17 per cent. , the quantity of silver in nitrosalicylate of silver being 37'24 per cent. When datiscine was allowed to stand in contact with dilute nitric acid in the cold it gradually dissolved , and the liquid assumed a yellow colour .
The solution , when left to evaporate in vacuo , was found to contain a mixture of oxalic and nitropicric acids .
Action of Potash on Datiscine and Datiscetine .
It was stated in a previous part of this paper that datiscine and datiscetine dissolve in solutions of caustic alkalies without decomposition , and that datiscine , when boiled for some time , is decomposed with the formation of datiscetine .
It only remained therefore to try the action of fused hydrate of potash .
Datiscetine , when added in small successive potrtions to fused hydrate of potash , assumed a deep orange colour , and then dissolved with the evolution of hydrogen gas .
When the disengagement of hydrogen ceased , the mass was dissolved in water and supeirsaturated with hydrochloric acid .
A partly crystalline resinous substance separated , which , by sublimation , yielded perfectly colourless long ciystals , closely resembling benzoic acid .
Their solution in water assumed , on the addition of perchloride of iron , that deep violet tint which disappears on the addition of hydrochloric acid , and is characteristic of salicylic acid .
Action of Chromic Acid .
Datiscetine was likewise distilled with bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid ; the liquid which came over did not contain oily drops , but had the smiell of salicylous acid , and formed with persalts of iron a purple-coloured solution .
A trace of salicylous acid appeared therefore to have been produced .
It follows therefore , I think , from the expeiiment already detailed , that datiscine , like salicine , phloridzine , &amp;c. , is a gltcoside , and that it approaches nearer to salicine than any other glucoside , with the exception of populine , yet known .
In fact I am not aware of any glucoside , with the exception of salicine and populine , which , when treated with nitric acid , yields nitrosalicylic or even nitropicric acid .
Phloridzine and phloretine , for instance , when treated with nitric acid , are stated by different experimenters to yield only oxalic acid .
I repeated the experiment with phloretine , and obtained much oxalic acid , while the residual liquor yielded not a trace of chloropicrine when treated with hypochlorite of lime , and consequently contained no nitropicric acid .
Quercitrine , when likewise treated with nitric acid , was also found 148 to yield , as RIGAUD states , only oxalic acid .
I had no opportunity of trying esculetine , but it is stated by those who have investigated it to yield only oxalic acid .
I will conclude this account of datiscine by proposing the following practical application .
As is well known , the colouring matter of madder when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid is changed into sugar and garancine , a new dye-stuff , which for many purposes is foundc superior to that originally present in the madder .
Within the last twelve months , Mr. LIESHING , by treating the colouring matteis in weld and quercitron bark with dilute sulphuric acid , has resolved tihemn into new colouring matters , which are but slightly soluble in water , and are found nearly three times more powerful as ( lye-stuffs than the original colouring matters from which they had been produced .
As ( latiscine , when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , undergoes a perfectly similar transformation , being resolved into sugar and datiscetine , which has a much higher colouring power than the datiscine which has produced it , I have not the least doubt that silk dyers , who may hereafter employ solutions of Datisca cannabina , will find it highly advantageous to convert their datiscine into datiscetine by boiling it with dilute sulphuric acid ; as the process is an extremely simple one , and as the datiscetine , from its sparing solubility in water , can be velry readily obtained in a state of coniparative purity .
Ptychotis Ajowan .
The Ptychofis Ajowan is an tumbelliferous plant , well known in India for its aroimatic and carminative properties .
Its seeds , which very much resemble in appearance those of the caraway , only being miuch smaller , have a very agreeable odour , resembling oil of thyme .
On distilling these seeds repeatedly with water , the essential oil is very easily obtained , amounting to between five and six per cent. of the weight of the seeds .
This oil has a light brown colour , and possesses an agreeable aromatic odour .
Its specific giavity is 0-896 at 12 ?
C. , and upon leaving the oil for some time in an open dlish to spontaneous evaporation , the temnperature at the time being comparatively low , large beautiful crystals were deposited , which on examination were found to be identical with the stearopten brought from India by the late Dr. STOCKS , and described by me in a short notice published in the number of the ' Pharmaceutical Journal ' for December 1854 .
When the crude oil is submitted to distillation , it begins to boil at 160 ?
C. , the thermnometer rising rapidly to 174 ?
C. The thermometer then rises to 220 ?
C. , and the oil which comes over at this temperature crystallizes on cooling .
The residue , which does not immediately crystallize , on remaining at rest for some time , solidifies into a crystalline mass , the crystals having precisely the same form as those obtained by spontaneous evaporation , and amounting , in weight , to from one-third to one-fourth of the crude oil .
As it seemed probable from these experiments , therefore , that Ptychotis oil , like many other essential oils , is a mnixture of a liquid hydrocarbon and of a less volatile oxygenated stearopten , I proceeded to separate these compounds .
The Hydrocarbon.-The more volatile portion of the oil was redistilled , that part of it which boiled at 176 ?
C. being separately collected .
After having been dried with chloride of calcium , it was distilled over caustic potash .
It was then repeatedly treated with sodium , and again cautiously rectified .
The hydrocarbon thus obtained was perfectly colourless , refracted light strongly , and had a pungent , aromatic odour , quite dissimilar , however , from that of oil of thyme .
Its boilingpoint was found to be 172 ?
C. , a thermoimeter being placed in the vapour , and its specific gravity 0'854 at 12 ?
C. The following analyses show that it is isomeric with oil of turpentine .
I. 0'1280 grin .
gave 0'4145 grin .
carbonic acid and 0*1335 grlm .
water .
II .
0'1765 grin .
gave 0'5705 grmn .
carbonic acid and 0*1825 grmn .
water .
Required .
Found .
I. II .
C,0 = 60 88.23 88'31 88'15 H8 =8 11*77 11'59 11'49 When the oil was treated with hydrochloric acid no crystalline compound was obtained , but a brown mobile liquid , having an agreeable smell similar to the oil itself .
The Stearopten.-I have already mentioned that the portion remaining in the retort friomt the distillation of the crude oil , solidified on cooling into a crystalline mass .
When cautiously rectified it began to boil at 218 ?
C. , the thermometer , towards the latter part of the distillation , rising to 225 ?
C. , and even higher .
The greater portion , however , cane over at about 222 ?
C. The first portion which came over was quite colourless , and had a mild aromatic smell , but the subsequent portions had a more pungent odour , and a yellowish colour .
The more volatile and by far the larger portion of the distillate crystallized on cooling , especially when agitated , the crystals assuming a rhombohedral form .
When it was kept quite quiet , however , it remained liquid for several days , but on being plunged into a freezing mixture it immediately solidified .
The less volatile and more coloured portion of the distillate could not be made to crystallize , even when kept in a mixture of snow and salt .
The form of the crystals , obtained by the solidification of the distilled stearopten , appeared at first sight to differ from that of the stearopten from India given me by Dr. STOCKS ; but , upon these crystals being dissolved in the hydrocarbon of the oil , they were obtained in forms precisely similar to those of the Indian stearopten .
This was also the case when either the crude or the distilled crystals were deposited from their solutions in alcohol or ether .
Through the kindness of Professor MILLER of Cambridge , I am enabled to submit the following very accurate description and measurements of these crystals .
150 " The white crystals , which were the purer portions of the distilled stearopten , have the following figure and measurements:"Oblique:-Symbols of the simple forms:a 100 , b 010 , c 001 , m 110 , e 210 , r ll1 .
Angles between normals to the faces:bc 90 0 ca 103 23 ab 90 0 ea 42 17 ec 61 6 ma 49 21 mb 40 39 mc 98 40 cm ' 81 20 rc 49 18 rm 49 22 em 61 11 re 42 13 , rm ' 76 36 / mm ' I Ij ' min 81 18 a rr ' 108 50 " C Cleavage:--m , c very perfect .
" The brown crystals .
" Rhombohedral:-Symbols of the simple forms , a 011 , r 100 , e 011 .
Angles between normals to the faces:aal 60 0r rr ' 98 38 re ' 49 19 l 7^ ra ' 40 41 r 1e " Cleavage:-r very perfect .
The faces e , a , are very narrow.\ " The white crystals are very thin in a direction perpendicular to the faces c. It is remarkable , that though they have the character of crystals of the oblique system , the cleavages make with each other very nearly the same angles as the cleavages of the brown crystals .
The differences fall within the probable errors of observation : for the crystals , being very tender , and frequently having lost a portion of the original surface by evaporation , do not admit of very accurate measurement .
" In the brown crystals the cleavages are parallel to the faces r , r ' , r " , and the x2 151 angle between normals to rr ' is 98 ? ?
38 ' .
In the white crystals the cleavages are parallel to the faces c , m , m ' .
The angle between normals to m , c is 98 ? ?
40 ' , and the angle between normals to m and the face parallel to m ' is 98 ? ?
42 ' .
I should almost be inclined to suppose the brown crystals to have actually the same form as the white ones , the difference of the angles rr ' , r'r " , rr " escaping observation , and as a consequence , that they have the same chemical constitution , a slight alnount of impurity excepted .
" The following are the results of the analyses of the stearopten obtained from different sources .
A. Stearopten from India* .
I. 0'2385 grim .
gave 0'6955 grnm .
CO2 and 0'2025 grin .
1-1H .
II .
0-3405 grn. gave 09910 grim .
CO2 and 0'2815 grm. HO .
III .
0'1870 grn. gave 0'5440 grm. CO2 and 0-1550 grm. HO .
B. Stearopten obtained by the spontaneous evaporation of the oil .
0'3355 grin .
gave 0'9780 grin .
CO , and 0'2735 grin .
HO .
C. Distilled stearopten recrystallizedfrom the oil .
I. 0'2720 grm. gave 0'8015 grmn .
CO2 and 0'2225 grin .
HO .
II .
0'3115 grm. gave 0'9175 grm. CO2 and 0'2630 grin .
HO .
ITh'le most simple formula agreeing with the numbers obtained by the above analyses is C,0 I]7 O , as shown by the following Table : Required .
Found .
A. 1 .
C. I. : II .
III .
I I. j C10 = 60 80.00 79-53 79-38 79.34 79-50 80.36 80.33 H7 =7 9-33 9-43 9'19 9'19 9*06 9'09 9-38 0=8 1067 -D .
Analysis of the distilled stearopten not recrystallized out of the oil .
I. 0'4125 grin .
gave 1-1885 CO2 and 0'3375 grin .
1H .
II .
0'3030 grin .
gave 0'8655 CO2 and 0'2475 grin .
HO .
E. Analysis of the same crystals recrystallized out of ether and pressed between folds of blotting-paper .
1 .
0'5915 grm. gave 1'7100 grlm .
CO2 and 0 4860 grmn .
HO .
II .
0'2385 girmn gave 0'6900 grin .
COS and 01975 grin .
HO .
Analysis of the last ( now crystallizable ) part of the distillation .
I. 0'3980 grim .
gave 1'1195 glm .
CO2 and 0'3395 grm. HO .
II .
0'3875 grin .
gave 1'0930 grin .
CO2 and 0'3225 grm. HO .
From the foregoing analyses the following per-centage results were obtained : D. E. F. I. | II .
| I. II .
I. II .
C =78-58 78.26 78-84 78'90 7671 76-92 H= 9-09 9c06 9-09 9'20 9-48 925 It will be seen , by the above analyses , that , during distillation , the stearopten undergoes partial decomposition , the amnount of carbon being thus decreased .
T'he analyses D. and E. were evidently made with an impure substance , but the analysis F. agrees in a surprising manner with the numbers calculated from the foirmula C1 H , , O2 , which requires C15=90 76-92 Hl=11 9'40 02 =16 I do not however wish it to be supposed that the formula given above , or the double , of it , viz. C30 H22 0 , is the true formula for that substance ; nevertheless I may observe that it bears a very simple relation to the formula of the stearopten itself .
The one may be regarded as 3C,0 I16+4HO , and the other 3C10 H-6+3HO , that is , as two different hydrates of the same hypothetical hydrocarbon C10 H6 , or C20 HI1 , which perhaps might have been obtained by distilling the stearopten with anhydrous phosphoric acid .
All the experiments which I made , with a view of determining the basic or acid properties of the stearopten , gave negative results .
When an alcoholic solution of the crystals was mixed with one of acetate of lead , no precipitate was formed , and the same was the case with nitrate and ammonio-nitrate of silver .
The crystals of the stearopten dissolve when gently warmted in oil of vitriol , heat being evolved , and a purple colour produced .
On standing the whole solidified , and the mass thus obtained was very soluble in water , yielding a colourless solution , with drops of a red oily liquid floating in it , produced probably by the action of the sulphuric acid on some of the hydrocarbon adhering to the stearopten .
When dissolved in a small quantity of hot water the copulated acid was deposited , on the cooling of the solution , in fine colourless scaly crystals .
I regret that the small quantity of the substance at my disposal prevented me om determining the equivalent of the stearopten by means of the acid or one of its salts .
I obtained both the baryta and the lead salt in a crystallized 153 state by neutralizing the solutions of the acid with the carbonates of those bases .
ITheir analysis , however , gave irregular results , as , owing to the smallness of their quantity , I could not prepare them in a state of perfect purity .
In the former notice of the stearopten , already mentioned , it was stated that by long-continued digestion with concentrated nitric acid , the stearopten was dissolved , and a colourless crystalline acid produced .
This acid is neither oxalic acid , nor , apparently , any of the nitrogenated acids .
At least when warmed with hypochlorite of lime it gives off no chloropicrine .
I suspect , therefore , that it will be found to be a new acid , the examination of which I hope ere long to lay before the Society .
From the physical plroperties and the elementary composition of the stearopten of the Ptychotis Ajowan , it struck me that it was very similar to , if not identical with , the solid portion of oil of thyme , described by LALLEMAND in his recent papers on that substance* .
This idea induced me to distil the stearopten dissolved in oil of vitriol with an excess of peroxide of manganese .
As anticipated , besides formic acid , there came over yellow drops which solidified on cooling , forming large crystals , having a peculiar odoul somewhat resembling iodine or kinone , and agreeing in every respect with the substance described by LALLEMAND as thymol .
Before LALLEMAND has published his experiments in detail , which are now only known from the two notes in the 'Comptes Rendus , ' I do not think it possible to ( lecide with perfect certainty whether thymol and the , stearopten of the Ptychotis are really identical substances , and even then , perhaps , it will be found necessary to make more complete experiments with the stearopten of the Ptychotis .
The hypothesis of their identity , however , appears to me highly probable from the great similarity existing in the most important properties of those substances .
I may add , that I agree with GERHARDTt in considering the crytallizable substance obtained by ARPPEf from the essential oil of the Horse-mint ( Monarda punctata , huile de monarde ) , to be identical with LALLEMAND'S thymol and DOVERI'S less volatile portion of the oil of thyme .
All these substances gave nearly the same numerical results when subjected to analysis .
DOVERI observed two boiling-points , one between 175 ?
and 180 ?
C. , and the other between 230 ?
and 235 ?
C. LALLEMAND found the boiling-point of his thymene to be 165 ?
C. , and obtained a liquid hydrochloric acid compound .
ARPPE'S crystallizable substance from the horse-mint oil , was found to inelt at 48 ?
C. , to solidify at 38 ?
C. , and to boil at 224 ?
C. The crystals were rhombohedral , having one angle of 97 ? ?
30 ' and another of 82 ? ?
30 ' .
The Ptychotis oil , according to my experiments , contains a hydrocarbon boiling at 172 ?
, and forming a liquid hydrochloric acid compound , and a crystallizable substance melting at 44 ?
C. , and boiling at about 222 ?
C. The principal angles are stated by Professor MILLER to be0 1 " Crystallized on cooling. .
rr ' =98 38 Indian crystals .
mc =98 40 Indian crystals ... . .
mm=81 18 Indian crystals ... m'c =81 20 .
" Two properties , however , I observed different from those given by LALLEMAND , viz. that the stearopten of the Ptychotis is precipitated ( in a liquid state ) from its alcoholic solutions by water , and that potash does not dissolve it , but merely causes it to assume the liquid state .
From the results of these experiments , therefore , I think we may confidently infer that the stearopten of the Ptychotis oil , and the crystallizable oxygenated portion of oil of thyme , examined by LALLEMAND , if not identical , as I apprehend they are , are certainly extremely similar bodies .
Gum of the Gardenia lucida , ROXB .
( the Decamalee Gum of Scinde ) .
The specimen of this gum on which I operated was evidently very old .
It formed a hard , dry mass , of a dark brown colour , with numerous patches of greenish-yellow matter disseminated through it .
It had but a faint odour , unless freshly fractured or gently heated , when it smelt like the urine of the cat .
A comparatively recent specimen of this gum , which I saw in the hands of the late Dr. STOCKS , had nearly the consistence of candied honey , and an exceedingly offensive odour .
Dr. STOCKS informed me that the recent gum was employed as a dressing for wounds , as it kept off the flies .
The resin was digested in strong spirits of wine till a saturated solution was obtained .
This , on cooling , immediately deposited some yellow , amorphous flocks .
These were separated by filtration , and the clear liquid slowly evaporated in vacuo .
On standing a few days , it deposited slender golden-yellow crystals , about half an inch in length .
The crystals had considerable lustre , and were very brittle .
To this crystalline substance I propose giving the provisional name of Gardenine .
Gardenine is nearly insoluble both in cold and hot water .
It dissolves pretty readily in alcohol , but much less easily in ether , yielding 'bright yellow solutions , out of which it crystallizes on cooling .
Alkalies , such as ammonia , do not appear to increase its solubility .
It is slightly soluble in hot hydrochloric acid .
Strong oil of vitriol dissolves gardenine in the cold with the production of a beautiful dark red colour .
On adding water to this solution the gardenine is precipitated apparently unchanged .
Its alcoholic solutions give no precipitates with amnmonio-nitrate of silver , or with basic acetate of lead .
When gardenine is digested with concentrated 155 nitric acid , it is rapidly decomposed , nitropicric acid , but apparently no oxalic acid , being produced .
Unlfortunately , from the very small quantity of resin at my disposal , I was unable to prepare a sufficient amount of the gardenine , either to subject it to analysis , or to examine it more particularly .
Dr. ROYLE lias , however , already commissioned a large quantity of the resin from India , which I trust will ere long enable me to complete its examination .
Gardenine appears to belong to the tolerably nutnerous class of indifferent crystallizable resins , of which it is certainly one of the most beautiful .
St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , November 14th , 1855 .
Notes on Datisca cannabina , Ajowan and Decamalee Gum , received from Dr. ROYLE , March 12 , 1856 .
Ikl-beer , the stems and roots of Datisca cannabina .
" Datisca is found both in the Old and New World , existing in the latter in Pennsylvania .
D. cannahina , so named from its great resemblance to the Hemp-plant , extends from the south of Europe and Asia Minor through Iberia to the valleys of the Himalaya .
I have obtained it from Cashmere and Kunawm , and found it at the foot of the Choor and Kedarkanta mountains .
It spreads also to Nepal ; D. nepalensis , Don , being the same species."-RoYLE , Himal .
Bot. p. 340 .
The Ikl-beer is much esteemed in the Punjab for dyeing silk of a yellow colour .
It is probable that some of the silk scarves of a lemon-yellow colour , which were much admired by artists for the delicacy of their colour , had been dyed by this substance , as it is there esteemed for dyeing silk of this colour .
tAjwain .
" The remaining Umbelliferae , which are known in India , are those found only in a cultivated state ; but this from so remote a period as to have become perfectly naturalised , and known to the natives , as well as to have names given to them in the languages of different parts of the country ; some also have not as yet been found in other parts of the world ; " -f as Ptychotis Ajowan , known everywhere by the name 4jwain , slightly varied in different districts."- " In addition to these , Ptychotis sylvestris , nol .
, called arub ajwain , is used as a carminative by the natives."-ROYLE Himalaya Bot. p. 229 .
" Dr. ROXBURGH , in describing Ligustictm A4jowan , states , he cannot conceive that:this famous Indianr plant , airomatic in smell , pungent in taste , used both by natives and Europeans for culinary and medicinal purposes , can be unknown to 156 European botanists .
To Ajwain Persian authors assign nankhwah as the Arabic name .
This is the iS._ % ( Nankhwah ) of AVICENNA , written nanachua and nanachue in the marginal translation of Ammi , in the Latin edition of his works ; which names are quoted under Ammi by MATHIOLUS , in his Commentaries on DIOSCORIDES .
But in Persian works on Materia Medica , Aammi is also given as the Greek synonym of nankhwah , that is , of Ajwain , which Dr. ROXBURGH justly supposed could not be unknown to Europeans .
This plant has been referred by M. DECANDOLLE to the genus Ptychotis , which brings it near P. copticum , called at one time Ammi copticumn : the Ammi itself is calledG Cuminum .
SEthiopicum and regium ; the latter name is translated by KUMOON MULLOOKEE , and is given as a synonym of nankhwah in Persian authors."-L .
c. p. 230 .
It is probable therefore that this Indian species of Ptychotis has long been employed as the Aammi of the Greeks .
Decamalee .
" This is the gum of the Gardenia lucida .
It exudes in amber-coloured transparent drops , at the ends of the young shoots , and from thence is collected .
It is most useful in preventing vermin from breeding in wounds .
It is brought to Bombay from the interior."-Bombay List of Articles for Exhibition of 1851 , p. 30 .

