II .
" On the Telescopic Appearance of the Planet Mars .
" By JOHN PHILLIPS , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S , F.G.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received February 5 , 1863 .
Notwithstanding the descriptions and drawings of Mars , for which we are indebted to eminent observers* , there remains much uncertainty as to the permanent boundaries of the bright and shady parts of the planet , to which respectively , on a first view , we attach , perhaps too readily , the idea of land and seas .
The extremely variable aspects under which this planet appears in its excentric orbit , the axis being inclined more than 30 ?
to the ecliptic , the different regions very unequally presented to incident light , and very unequally influenced by vicissitudes of heat and cold , may account for much of the uncertainty .
Other difficulties arise when the work of different instruments is compared ; for it is established that reflectors will on the whole give the best results for colour , while achromatics of fine quality discover more of detail than instruments of less perfect definition .
The author having devoted some evenings between the 27th of September and 13th of December 1862 to the examination of Mars with a 6-inch achromatic by Cooke , equatorially mounted , and moved by clockwork , at Oxford , presented to the Society some results of these observations combined with others , also made with achromatics , by Mr. Grove , Mr. Main , and Mr. Lockyer .
These various observations , made entirely without concert , were rendered comparable by a calculated reduction of each to the longitude on Mars corresponding to the epoch of each , according to one standard .
[ Tables of these reductions were given in the paper .
] The sketches were then arranged on sheets in the order of the computed longitudes ; and , in addition , two globes were exhibited , on one of which the main results of the author 's observations were drawn , the data for the other being supplied by Mr. Lockyer 's sketches .
He was also aided in the explanations by large drawings made with reflectors by Mr. De la Rue and Mr. Nasmyth .
From the author 's sketches , three , representing opposite hemispheres , and one intermediate quadrature , have been selected for engraving , -one central to the assumed meridian of 0 ?
or 360 ?
, the others to the meridians of 90 ?
and 180 ?
nearly .
See figs. 1 , 2 , 3 .
Fig. 1.-Mars as seen on the 27th of September and on several other occasions till the 13th of December .
( Longitude 0 ? .
) On considering the surface of the planet , either as seen in the telescope , or delineated on paper , we feel in some doubt as to the meaning of what we see .
Are the bright parts ( often seen of a red tint ) land , the darker parts ( often appearing of a greenish grey ) water ?
or , as in the moon , are the reflecting powers of different parts of a dry surface very unequal ?
Is there any considerable change in the aspect of the masses or boundaries between one epoch and another , so as to indicate atmospheric vicissitudes like those on Jupiter and our own planet ?
Taking the latter question first , the author found , on the experience of his observations during 74 days , that no material change took place in the main and prominent features about the longitude which he marks 0 ? .
Not that after this considerable interval the appearances remained exactly as at first : that was not , and could not be Fig. 2.-The appearance of Mars at longitude 90 ?
, with long oblique ridges south of the great boundary , and nearly or quite running into the northern land , here less broad than in fig. 3 : seen November 11th .
Fig. 3.-The llemisphere of Mars , opposite to fig. 1 : seen October 15th and 16th .
With a specially dark band expected to be the case , after the planet had increased his distance from the earth to nearly double that when the observations began .
Adding to his own the experience of Mr. Lockyer , whose observations began 35 days earlier , this inference , of permanence in the main boundaries of lights and shades , is extended to above 100 revolutions of Mars ; and on comparison of these with the earlier sketches of Madler , Herschel , Jacobs , and De la Rue , the conclusion appears to embrace the whole series of more than thirty years .
The author regards as one of the main features very firmly defined in the late opposition , the broad white or rather reddish band which from about 65 ?
of north latitude ( the north pole being invisible in these observations ) spreads up into large bright cloudlike prominences toward and beyond the equator , and retires into one principal and several smaller bays toward the pole .
From this bright space , which in many parts is sharply defined , a broad dusky tint spreads toward the south , partially relieved by half-lighted expansions with shades of various depths between .
The south pole itself is surrounded ( excentrically as it appears ) by a bright white mass , obviously glittering in the telescope .
This is believed to be snow ; and the effect of its whiteness is increased in most parts of its circumference by the contrast of a dark ring round it , which expands here and there into broader spaces .
Thus a great part of the northern area appeared in the late opposition bright , and often reddish , as if it were land , while a great part of the southern area was of the grey hue which is considered to indicate water , but relieved by various tracts of a tint more or less approaching to that of the brighter spaces of the northern hemisphere .
The principal boundary of light and shade , for the most part very well defined , ran obliquely across the equator of Mars , so as to reach latitudes from 20 ?
to 30 ?
north and south of that line .
This may perhaps be understood by the drawings selected for illustration , especially if compared with an orthographic projection of the latitudes* .
( Still better by means of the globes which accompanied the communication , constructed by the author , one from his own sketches , the other from those of Mr. Lockyer .
) Allowing the white spaces to be land , which reflects light as the moon in opposition , it seems a natural supposition that the shady spaces should be called sea ; and this may be supported by the obvious requirement of water somewhere on Mars , to agree with the alternate gathering and melting of the snow round the poles .
Still , every observer remarks no small resemblance of some of these shady tracts with particular parts of the unequally tinted grey surfaces of the moon .
A positive proof of ocean on the disk of Mars would be afforded by the star-like image of the sun reflected from the quiet surface* , or the more diffused light thrown back from the waves ; but nothing of this sort has been placed on record , nor is there such a variation in the appearance of these spaces from the centre toward the edges as to give any special reason for thinking them occupied by water .
Atmospheric vicissitudes , however , appear to be recognized in the somewhat variable aspect of many portions of the grey spaces ; for these , thougli not much changed in the situation of the masses of light or shade , are sufficiently inconstant in.their shapes and details to suggest the idea of a vaporous envelope , brooding over and about some parts more than others , and variable from one epoch to another .
The drawings of Mr. Lockyer supply the best evidence of these variations ; for Professor Phillips , except on a few occasions , confined his attention chiefly to the stronger and apparently more settled boundaries of light and shade .
The tints on the body of Mars were observed by each of the gentlemen named , but with different results .
To Mr. Nasmyth , with a large reflector , the 'land ' appeared of a decidedly red tint , the 'water ' green .
The 'land ' appeared red in some parts , but bright and almost silvery in other parts , to Professor Phillips , looking through his achromatic , which also showed the ' water ' of a grey or greenish tint .
No redness appeared in Mr. Lockyer 's instrument , which , like many others of excellent quality for astronomical research , is intentionally C over-corrected .
' Mr. Nasmyth saw the snow-patch on the south pole so distinctly bordered , as to give him the impression of its having a cliffboundary .
The south snow-patch did not appear to him to agree with the south pole of the planet , but , on the contrary , to be considerably excentric to it ; and he supposed this to be due to the relative distribution of land and water , influencing the position of the centre of greatest cold .
Only a faint glimmering of the snowy surfaces round the north pole was seen by any observer .
On the whole , the author of this paper concluded that , over a permanent basis of bright and dusky tracts on the surface of Mars , a variable envelope gathers and fluctuates , partially modifying the aspect of the fundamental features , and even in some cases disguising them under new lights and shades , which present no constancy , -a thin vaporous atmosphere probably resting on a surface of land , snow , and water .
Addendum .
Since the reading of the paper the author has been enabled , by the kindness of the Earl of Rosse , to examine a series of sketches of Mars during the late opposition , from the great telescopes at Birr .
These drawings , six in number , were made on July 22 , Sept. 14 , Sept. 16 , Oct. 6 , Oct. 29 , and Nov. 6 .
They confirm in a remarkable manner the conclusions already presented by the author , and suggest some interesting questions for further observation and study .
On the 22nd of July the southern snow was a large patch , meeting the limb by its diametral line .
It must then have had a radius of 500 miles at least : in the later observations it was reduced to less than half this measure .
One of the drawings nearly corresponds to longitude 180 ?
on the author 's scale , and represents the specially dark short band which distinguishes that aspect of the planet ( fig. 3 ) .
Two correspond nearly to fig. 1 , and contain the remarkable deep angular bay which extends so far towards the north pole .
In these and the re maining three drawings , general resemblances and special differences appear on comparison with the sketches of Prof. Phillips and Mr. Lockyer .
The differences affect principally the grey southern parts , and are remarkable enough to justify serious doubts whether any of our drawings of those parts are much to be trusted as representing permanent physical boundaries .
Nor should this be thought surprising ; owing to the high inclination of the axis of Mars to the plane of his orbit , the regions round each pole are presented alternately to the sun through periods somewhat less than our whole year .
The effect is seen in the vast outspread of snows round the cold pole , and the contraction of those white sheets to a small glittering ellipse round the warm pole .
The enormous transfer of moisture from one hemisphere to the other while the snows are melting round one pole and growing round the other must generate over a great part of the planet heavy storms and great breadths of fluctuating clouds , which would not , as on the quickly rotating mass of Jupiter , gather into equatorial bands , but be more under the influence of prominent land and irregular tracts of ocean .

