A paper was also read , entitled , " Observations of Nebula ; and Ciusters of Stars , made at Slough , with a Twenty-feet Reflector , between the Years 1825 and 1833 .
" By Sir John F. W. Herschel , K.H. , F.R.S. This paper contains the results of observations begun in 1825 , and assiduously prosecuted till the commencement of the present year , for the purpose of reviewing the nebulse and ciusters of stars disco ?
vered byhis father , the late Sir William Herschel , and also of extending his discoveries , and enlarging our knowledge of the nature and physical constitution of those remarkable and mysterious bodies .
Since the recent improvements in the achromatic telescope , and the increased diligence of astronomers in surveying every part of the heavens , and detecting the passage of comets , the want of an extensive list of nebulee has become continually more urgent ; and hence the author was induced to supply , as far as he was able , that deficiency , which he has now attempted by simply stating the results of his own observations , in preference to waiting until he could present them to the Society in the more complete form of a general catalogue of nebulae and ciusters visible in this latitude .
All the observations here given have been reduced to a common epoch , and arranged in the order of right ascension : and in every case where the same object was observed more than once , all the observations relating to it have been collected together ; by which means they not only can be used as a catalogue for reference , but each result carries with it its own weight and evidence .
Great and various are the difficulties attending inquiries of this nature .
Many of the nebulag present a surface so large and ill de ?
fined , that it is not always easy to determine where the centre of greatest brightness is situated .
Vast numbers of the nebulae , indeed , are so extremely faint , as to be with difficulty perceived , till they have been some time in the field of vision , or are even just about to quit it ; so that the observations become hurried and uncertain .
In those parts of the heavens where they are most crowded , their prodigious number , as well as their variety , and the interest they excite , render it scarcely possible to proceed with that methodical calmness and regularity which are necessary to ensure numerical correctness .
It is also to be recollected , that it is only during the months of March , April , and May , that the richer parts of the heavens can be advantageously observed , and then only in the complete absence of the moon and of twilight .
From all these causes conjoined , it will be readily understood , that a much greater latitude of error is incident to observations of nebulae than to those of stars .
The observations registered in this paper comprise 2500 nebiuae and clusters of stars , ?
a number equal to that of those observed by Sir Wiliiam Herschel : only about 2000 , however , are common to both collections , the remaining 500 of the author 's being new .
Of these last , by far the greater proportion are objects of the last degree of faintness , only to be seen with much attention , and in good states both of the atmosphere and the telescope .
The author generally made a sketch of any remarkable nebula that presented itself ; and these drawings accompany the paper .
Among these are representa ?
tions of some very extraordinary objects , which have not hitherto sufficiently engaged the attention of astronomers , and many of which possess a symmetry of parts , and a unity of design , strongly marking them as systems of a definite nature , each complete in itself , and subservient to some distinct , though to us inscrutable , purpose .
In an Appendix , the author enters into a detailed account of the manner in which the reductions have been executed , and how the numbers set down in the catalogue are concluded from those regi ?
stered at the moment of observation .
For effecting these reductions , he pursued a method materially different , and much more convenient and exact , than he employed to reduce his earlier catalogue of double stars .
Various remarks are next made on the figured nebulae .
It often occurred to the author , to notice a peculiar state of the atmosphere , which is quite independent offogor haziness , in which all large stars above the seventh magnitude appear surrounded with photospheres , of a diameter of two or three minutes , or even more , and exactly resembling those about some of the finer specimens of nebulous stars .
These appearances come on suddenly , seldom last long , and disappear as unexpectedly as they come : hence the inference is drawn , that the true cause of this phenomenon is atmospheric , and that it is perhaps connected with some highly rarefied material , disseminated in cloud-like , though invisible , masses in the very highest regions of our atmosphere , and possibly the same with that which , when ignited by the passage of electric currents , gives rise to many , if not all , the phenomena of the aurora borealis .
Frequent instances occur of the proximity of minute stars to nebulae ; an appearance which naturally suggests the idea of their composing planetary systems : for the enormous magnitude of the nebulae , and its consequent probable mass , may , notwithstanding the rarity of its material , give it a gravitating energy , capable of retaining , in orbits three or four times their own diameter , and in periods of great length , small bodies of a star-like character .
Lastly , the author offers some temarks on the constitution of no ?
bulae which have an elongated or elliptical form , of those which are double , and of those to which the epithets of hairy or flamentous have been applied ; and considers their relations to ordinary physical laws .

