II .
" Observations on Glaciers .
" By JOHN TYNDALL , Esq. , F.R.S. , and THOMAS H. HUXLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received January 15 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) On the 6th of June , 1856 , certain views were advanced by one of us on the origin of slaty cleavage , and soon afterwards his attention was drawn by the other to the observations of Prof. J. D. Forbes on the structure of glacier ice , as suggesting the idea that the ice structure might be due to the same cause as the slate cleavage .
On consulting the observations referred to , the lecturer at once perceived the probability of the surmise , and the consequence was a joint visit for a few days to the glaciers of Grindelwald , the Rhone , and the Aar .
The subject being a physical one , it was followed up by the physicist on his return from the Continent .
Reading , reflection , and experiment extended the inquiry until it embraced the main divisions of the problem of glacial structure and motion ; and the paper now submitted to the Society contains an account of the investigation .
The first division is devoted to the consideration of certain phenomena connected with the motion of glaciers .
The power of glaciers to accommodate themselves to the sinuosities of the valleys which they occupy , and the resemblance of their motion through such valleys to the motion of a river , suggest ideas which find their clearest expression ill the viscous theory of glacier motion , propounded by Prof. J. D. Forbes .
Numerous appearances indeed seem to favour this notion .
The aspect of many glaciers as a whole , their power of closing up crevasses , and of reconstructing themselves after having been precipitated down glacial gorges ; the bendings and contortions of the ice , the quicker movement of the central portion of the glacier where it is uninfluenced by the retardation of the banks , -are all circumstances which have been urged with such ability as to leave the viscous theory without any formidable competitor at present .
To these may be added , the support which the theory derived from its apparent competency to explain the laminar structure of the ice , -a structure which it is affirmed is impossible of explanation upon any other hypothesis .
Nevertheless this theory is so directly opposed to our ordinary experience of the nature of ice , as to leave a lingering doubt of its truth upon the mind .
To remove this doubt it is urged , that the true nature of ice is to be inferred from experiments on large masses , and that such experiments place the viscosity of ice in the position of a fact rather than in that of a theory .
It has never been imagined that the bendings and contortions , and other evidences of apparent viscosity exhibited by a glacier , could be made manifest on hand specimens of ice .
In the present paper , however , this is shown to be possible .
Spheres of ice are described as being flattened into cakes , and squeezed into transparent lenses .
A straight prism of ice six inches long , is described as having been passed through a series of moulds augmenting in curvature , and finally coming out bent into a semi-ring .
A piece of ice is placed in a hemispherical cavity and is pressed upon by a protuberance not large enough to fill the cavity , and is thus squeezed into a cup .
In short , every observation made upon glaciers , and adduced by writers upon the subject in proof of the plasticity of ice , is shown to be capable of perfect imitation with hand specimens in the laboratory .
These experiments , then , demonstrate a capacity on the part of small masses of ice which has hitherto been denied to them by writers upon this subject .
They prove to all appearance that the substance is even much more plastic than it has hitherto been supposed to be ; but the real germ from which these results have sprung , is to be found in a lecture given by Mr. Faraday at the Royal Institution in 1850 , and reported in the 'Athenaeum ' and 'Literary Gazette ' for that year .
Mr. Faraday then showed , that when two pieces of ice , at a temperature of 32 ?
Fahr. , are placed in contact , they freeze together by the conversion of the film of moisture between them into ice .
The case of a snow-ball was referred to as a familiar illustration of the principle : when the snow is below 32 ?
, and therefore dry , it will not cohere , whereas when it is in a thawing condition , it can be squeezed into a hard compact mass .
During one of the hottest days of last July , when the temperature was upwards of 100 ?
Fahr. in the sun , and more than 80 ?
in the shade , a number of pieces of ice placed loosely together in a window in the Strand , were observed by one of us to be frozen together ; and he subsequently caused pieces of ice to freeze together under hot water .
Hence the thought arose , that if a piece of ice , a straight prism for example , were placed in a bent mould and submitted to pressure , it would break , but the continuance of the force would bring its severed surfaces to reunite , and that thus the continuity of the mass might be re-established .
Experiment , as we have seen , completely confirmed this surmise ; the ice passed from a continuous straight bar to a continuous bent one ; the transition being effected , not by a viscous yielding of the particles , but through fracture and r egelation .
All the phenomena on which the idea of viscosity has been founded , are brought by experiments similar to the above into harmony with the demonstrable properties of ice .
In virtue of these properties the glacier accommodates itself to its bed ; crevasses are closed up , and the broken ice of a cascade , such as that of the Talefre or the Rhone , is recompacted to a solid continuous mass .
But if the glacier effects its movement in virtue of the incessant fracture and regelation of its parts , this process will in all probability be accompanied by an audible cracking of the mass , and thus a noise of decrepitation may be expected to be heard , which would be absent if the motion were that of a viscous body .
It is well known that such noises are heard , and they thus receive a satisfactory explanation * .
The next division of the paper treats of the veined or laminar structure of glacier ice , which Prof. J. D. Forbes , in his earlier writings , compared to slaty cleavage .
His theory of the structure is perhaps the only one which has made any profound impression , and it may be briefly stated as follows .
Owing to the quicker flow of the centre of a glacier , a sliding of the particles of ice past each other takes place ; in consequence of this sliding , fissures are produced , which , when filled with water and frozen in winter , produce the blue veins of the glacier .
To account for the obliquity of the veins to the sides of the glacier , a drag towards the centre is supposed to take place , producing a differential motion which results in the formation of fissures .
But at the centre of the glacier this drag towards it cannot be supposed to exist ; and to account for the veined or laminated structure of the centre , which , under normal conditions , is transverse to the length of the glacier , it is supposed that the thrust behind meeting an enormous resistance in front , produces a differential motion in a direction approximating to the vertical , and that in consequence of this motion fissures are produced , which , when filled and frozen , produce , as in the other cases , the blue veins .
In the present paper it is observed that the onlyfact connected with this theory , is that of differential motion in the direction of the length of the glacier .
Beyond this , all is conjecture .
It refers to an observation which might be made on a fine day in summer , and which would show the air within the glacier ice escaping from its surface .
M. Agassiz supposes the ice to be diathermanous , and that thus the sun-beams get through it and heat the air-bubbles which it encloses , causing the air to expand , rupture the ice , and escape in the manner observed .
The observation is an interesting one , whatever difficulty we may find in the explanation .
An experiment made to-day ( January 31 ) appears to me to account for the observation in a satisfactory manner .
Snow having fallen , I was early at work compressing it ; and on removing a plate of it from the press , I noticed , as the surface melted , a sparkling motion produced by the escape of the air enclosed within the mass .
To imitate the action of the sun upon the glacier , an iron spatula was heated , and on bringing it near the surface of the compressed snow , the jumping of the surface , caused by the issue of air through the film of water which covered it , was greatly augmented .
On removing the spatula the motion subsided .
To a similar action on the part of the sun melting the surface of the glacier , and thus liberating by degrees the air-bubbles with which the ice is filled , the observation of M. Agassiz is in all probability to be referred.-J .
T. is by no means established that the cold of winter can reach to depths sufficient to produce the blue veins , which are affirmed to be a portion " of the inmost structure " of the glacier .
Again , the lamination in some cases presents itself in the form of transparent lenticular masses , imbedded in the general substance of the white ice .
The differential motion referred to would be mechanically inadequate to produce detached cavities corresponding to these masses , which vary greatly in size , and in some cases accurately resemble the greenish spots seen in slate rock when a section perpendicular to the cleavage is exposed .
Further , as the fissures are produced by the motion of the glacier , and as this motion takes place both in summer and winter , it is to be inferred that they are formed at both seasons of the year .
But if formed in winter , they cannot be filled and frozen that season for want of water ; and , if formed in summer , they cannot be frozen while summer continues for want of cold .
Hence , at the end of each summer there ought , if the above theory be correct , to be a whole year 's unfrozen fissures in the ice .
Such fissures could not possibly escape observation if they existed ; but they never have been observed , -hence it is inferred that they have no existence .
With regard to the drag towards the centre of the glacier , it is observed , that if such a drag existed , the centre would ultimately absorb the sides , unless the loss were made good by a motion in some part of the glacier , from the centre towards the sides , which would be in opposition to the theory .
Experiments are described which prove that no such drag exists , and the actual motion observed is reduced to its elementary mechanical principles .
With regard to the transverse lamination at the centre of the glacier , the hypothesis involves , among others , the difficulty of supposing that fissures can be formed in a mass assumed to be viscous , at right angles to the direction of an enormous pressure to which the mass is subjected .
An attempt is next made to apply the theory of slaty cleavage , propounded by one of the authors , to the laminated structure of glacier ice .
It is shown that this lamination , like that of slate rock , is always approximately at right angles to the direction of maximum pressure ; -that local circumstances which give rise to a violent thrust , produce at the same time a highly developed lamination .
When two confluent glaciers unite to form a single trunk , the effect of their mutual thrust is to develope the veined structure along their line of junction .
This is illustrated in the case of the Aar and other glaciers ; and experiments are described which show the mechanical condition of such glaciers , and that the veined structure of the ice , which sometimes rises to a case of " true cleavage , " occurs at the precise places where the compression theory would lead one to expect it .
The lenticular structure before referred to , the obliquity of the veins to the sides of the glacier , the transverse lamination at the centre , the relation of the blue bands to the crevasses , are all in perfect harmony with this theory .
Indeed , unless we suppose the ice of glaciers to be perfectly homogeneous , mechanically speaking , we must infer that under pressure some portions will be rendered more compact than others , and the veined structure is the natural consequence * .
Finally , the well-known phenomenon of " dirt-bands " upon the surfaces of glaciers is considered , and an explanation of those bands , as seen upon the glaciers of Grindelwald and the Rhone , is attempted .
On the former glacier the bands were particularly well developed ; and a portion of the glacier where they did not exist was presented to us simultaneously with the bands upon another portion .
Their proximate origin and final completion were thus before us .
The explanation offered in the paper is , that the dirt scattered by avalanches and winds over the upper regions of a glacier is redistributed by the passage of the glacier down a cascade where the ice is shattered , and the dirt broken up into detached patches .
On reaching the bottom , where the force becomes one of compression , the patches of dirt are squeezed longitudinally and drawn out laterally , being thus converted into stripes of discoloration , which , owing to the speedier motion of the centre of the glacier , are convex towards its lower extremity .
On consulting the map of Prof. Forbes , it will be seen that the dirt-bands commence at the base of the ice-fall of the Talefre , while none exist above the fall .
Those shown on the Glacier du Geant , we are led to infer , commence at the base of the Cascade of la Noire , which , however , is not sketched on the map .
The theory of Prof. Forbes is , that a glacier , throughout its entire length , is composed of alternate segments of hard and porous ice ; that the dirt is washed from the former , but finds " 6 a lodgement " in the latter , thus giving rise to the phenomenon of the bands .
We are unacquainted with the experiments on which this theory is founded , and have only to state , that the bands which we have observed seem accounted for by the simple explanation given above .
In the paper , experiments are described illustrative of this view , and in which the bands are accurately exhibited on a small scale .
In the course of the inquiry much assistance was derived from the use of troughs of various shapes and sizes , through which mud , formed by the mixture of finely-sifted pipeclay and water , was permitted to flow .
Coloured circles being stamped upon the mud , from the distortion of these the character of the forces , whether compression or tension , acting upon the mass was inferred .
It is needless to say , that this mode of experiment does not pledge the authors to the view that ice is similarly constituted to mud .
Where the mud stretches , the ice breaks ; and the experiments were mainly instituted for the purpose of examining the relation of the forces acting upon a glacier to its directions of fracture .
It may , however , be urged , that , after all , the foregoing experiments do not prove the viscous theory to be wrong .
The mere fact of bending a prism of ice by fracture and regelation , does not prove that ice is non-viscous .
This is perfectly true ; nor is it conceived that the onus rests on us to prove the negative here .
All that is claimed for the foregoing experiments is the referring of certain observed phenomena to a true cause , instead of to an imaginary one .
An illustration may perhaps serve to place this question in its true light .
By Newton 's calculation , the velocity of sound through air was one-sixth less than what observation made it ; and to account for this discrepancy he supposed that the sound passed instantaneously through the particles of air , time being required only to accomplish the passage from particle to particle .
He supposed the diameter of each air-particle to be 9ths of the distance between two particles , and nobody ever proved him wrong .
Still , when Laplace assigned a vera causa for the discrepancy , the hypothesis of Newton , and other ingenious suppositions , were discarded .
The proof indeed in such cases consists in the substitution of a fact for a conjecture ; and whether this has been done in the case now before us , the intelligent reader must himself decide .

