The following papers were read:-I.e " On Carbonate of Lime as an ingredient or Sea-water .
" By John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. Lond. &amp; Ed. , Inspector-General of Army Hospitals , &amp;c. The manner in which limestone cliffs rising above deep water are worn by the action of the sea , as it were by a weak acid , such as we know it contains , viz. the carbonic the manner , further , in which the sand on low shores where the waves break , becomes consolidated , converted into sandstone , by the deposition of carbonate of lime from sea.water owing to the escape of carbonic acid gas , -are facts clearly proving that carbonate of lime is as a constituent of seawater neither rare of occurrence , nor unimportant in the oeconomy of nature , inasmuch as the phmenomena alluded to , the one destructive , the other restorative , have been observed in most parts of our globe where geological inquiry has been instituted .
Reflecting on the subject , it seemed to me desirable to ascertain whether carbonate of lime as an ingredient of sea-water is chiefly confined to the proximity of coasts , or not so limited enters into the composition of the ocean in its widest expanse .
On a voyage from Barbados in the West Indies to England in November last ( 1848 ) , I availed myself of the opportunity to make some trials to endeavour to determine this , the results of which I shall now briefly relate .
First , I may mention that water from Carlisle Bay in Barbados , tested for carbonate of lime , gave strong indications of its presence ; thus a well-marked precipitate was produced by ammonia , after the addition of muriate of ammonia in excess , that is , more than was sufficient to prevent the separation of the magnesia which enters so largely into the composition of sea-water ; and a like effect was produced either by boiling the water so as to expel the carbonic acid , or by evaporation to dryness and resolution of the soluble salts .
On the voyage across the Atlantic , the test by means of ammonia and muriate of ammonia was employed , acting on about a pint of water taken from the surface .
The first trial was made on the 15th of November , when in latitude 20§ 30 ' N. , and longitude 63§ 20 ' W. , more than a hundred miles from any land ; the result was negative .
Further trials were made on the 22nd of the same month in lat. 32§ 53 ' , long .
45§ 10 ' ; on the 24th , in lat. 36§ 23 ' , long .
37§ 21 ' ; on the 25th , in lat. 37§ 21 ' , long .
33§ 34 ' ; on the 26th , in lat. 38§ 28 ' , long .
30§ 2 ' ; on the 27th , when off Funchal of the Western Islands , in lat. 38§ 32 ' , long .
28§ 40 ' , about a mile and a half from the shore , the water deep blue , as it always is out of soundings : in all these instances likewise the results were negative ; the transparency of the water was nowise impaired by the test applied .
The last trial was made on the 3rd of December , when in the Channel off Portland I-Head , about fifteen miles ; now , slight traces of carbonate of lime were obtained , a just perceptible turbidness being produced .
The sea-water from Carlisle Bay , the shore of which and the adjoining coast are calcareous , yielded about 1 per 10,000 of carbonate of lime , after evaporation of the water to dryness , and the resolution of the saline matter .
A specimen of water taken up on the voyage off the volcanic island of Fayal , about a mile from land , yielded a residue which consisted chiefly of sulphate of lime , with a very little carbonate of lime , -a mere trace ; acted on by an acid it gave off only a very few minute air-bubbles .
A specimen taken up off Portland Head , about fifteen miles , yielded on evaporation and resolution of the saline jmatter only a very minute residue , about -4 only per 10,000 ; it consisted in part of carbonate and in part of sulphate of lime .
What may be inferred from these results ?
Do they not tend to prove that carbonate of lime , except in very minute proportion , does not belong to water of the ocean at any great distance from land ?
And , filrther , do they not favour the inference , that when in notable proportion , it is in consequence of proximity to land , and of land , the shores of which are formed chiefly of calcareous rock ?
In using the word proximity , I would not limit the distance implied to a few miles , but rather to fifty or a hundred , as I am acquainted with shores consisting of volcanic islands in the Caribbean sea destitute of calcareous rock , on which , in certain situations , sandstone is now forming by the deposition from sea-water of carbonate of lime .
Should these inferences be confirmed by more extensive inquiry , they will harmonize well with the facts first referred to , the solvent power , on one hand , of sea-water impregnated with carbonic acid on cliffs of calcareous rock in situations not favourable to the disengagement of carbonic acid gas ; and the deposition , on the other hand , of carbonate of lime to perform the part of a cement on sand , converting it into sandstone , in warm shallows , where the waves break under circumstances , such as these are , favourable to the disengagement of this gas ; and , I hardly need add , that the same inferences will accord well with what may be supposed to be the requirements of organization , in the instances of all those living things inhabiting the sea , into the hard parts of which carbonate of lime enters as an element .
Apart from the oeconomy of nature , the subject under consideration is not without interest in another relation , -I allude to steam navigation .
The boilers of sea-going steam-vessels are liable to suffer from an incrustation of solid matter firmly adhering and with difficulty detached , liable to be formed on their inside , owing to a deposition which takes place from the salt water used for the production of steam .
On one occasion that I examined a portion of such an incrustation taken from the boiler of the " Conway , " a vessel belonging to the West Indian Steam Packet Company , I found it to consist principally of sulphate of lime , and to contain a small proportion only of carbonate of lime .
This vessel had been employed previously in transatlantic voyages , and also in intercolonial ones , plying between Bermudas and the Island of St. Thomas , and in the Caribbean sea and the Gulf of Mexico .
The composition of this incrustation , like the preceding results would seem to denote , if any satisfactory inference may be drawn from it , that carbonate of lime is in small proportion in deep water distant from land , and that sulphate of lime is commonly more abundant .
The results of a few trials I have made , whilst rather confirmatory of this conclusion , showed marked differences as to the proportion of sulphate of lime in sea-water in different situations .
That from Carlisle Bay was found to contain 11'3 per 10,000 .
A specimen taken up in lat. 29§ 19 ' and long .
50§ 45 ) , yielded about 2 per 10,000 , with a trace of carbonate of lime .
A specimen taken up off Fayal yielded about 9 per 10,000 , also with a trace of carbonate of lime .
One taken up off Portland Head , about fifteen miles distant , yielded , as already remarked , only *4 per 10,000 , part of which was sulphate , part carbonate of lime .
By certain management , I am informed , as by not allowing the sea-water in the boilers to be concentrated beyond a certain degree , the incrustation , in the instances of the transatlantic steamers , is in a great measure prevented .
Perhaps it might be prevented altogether , were sea-water never used but with this precaution , and taken up at a good distance from land , and in situations where it is known that the proportion of sulphate of lime is small .
If this suggestion be of any worth , further , more extensive and exact inquiry will be requisite to determine the proportion of sulphate of lime in different parts of the ocean , and more especially towards land .
By the aid of the transatlantic steam navigation companies means for such an inquiry may easily be obtained ; and it can hardly be doubted that the results will amply repay any cost or trouble incurred .
Lesketh How , Ambleside , March 29 , 1849 .

