The reading of a paper entitled , " On the Chemical Action of the Rays of the Solar Spectrum on Preparations of Silver and other Substances , both metallic and non-metallic ; and on some Photographic processes ; " by Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , V.P.R.S. , &amp; c , was resumed but not concluded .
The President stated to the Meeting , that , accompanied by the Treasurer , Secretary , and other Members of the Council , he had , on Tuesday last , presented the Address to His Royal Highness Prince Albert , to which His Royal Highness returned the following gracious answer : " It has been the source of great pleasure to me that my arrival in this country should have been hailed with such flattering demon ?
strations of sincere affection .
Amongst the many that have reached me , none have given me more satisfaction than that which I have just received from the Council of the Royal Society .
" March 5 , 1840 .
The MARQUIS of NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
Captain John Theophilus Boileau was balloted for , and duly elected into the Society .
The reading of a paper entitled , " On the Chemical Action of the Rays of the Solar Spectrum on Preparations of Silver and other Substances , both metallic and non-metallic ; and on some Photographic Processes ; " by Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , V.P.R.S. , &amp; c , was resumed and concluded .
The object which the author has in viewin this memoir is to place 20G on record a number of insulated facts and observations respecting the relations both of white light , and of the differently refrangible rays , to various chemical agents which have offered themselves to his notice in the course of his photographic experiments , suggested by the announcement of M. Daguerre 's discovery .
After recapitulating the heads of his paper on this subject , which was read to the Society on the 14th of March , 1839 , he remarks , that one of the most important branches of the inquiry , in point of practical utility , is into the best means of obtaining the exact reproduction of indefinitely multiplied facsimiles of an original photograph , by which alone the publication of originals may be accomplished ; and for which purpose the use of paper , or other similar materials , appears to be essentially requisite .
In order to avoid circumlocution , the author employs the terms positive and negative to express , respectively , pictures in which the lights and shades are the same as in nature , or as in the original model , and in which they are the opposite ; that is , light representing shade ; and shade , light .
The terms direct and reverse are also used to express pictures in which objects appear , as regards right and left , the same as in the original , and the contrary .
In respect to photographic publication , the employment of a camera picture avoids the difficulty of a double transfer , which has been found to be a great obstacle to success in the photographic copying of engravings or drawings .
The principal objects of inquiry to which the author has directed his attention in the present paper , are the following .
First , the means of fixing photographs ; the comparative merits of different chemical agents for effecting which , such as hyposulphite of soda , hydrioditc of potash , ferrocyanate of potash , &amp; c , he discusses at some length ; and he notices some remarkable properties , in this respect , of a pe ?
culiar agent which he has discovered .
2 .
The means of taking photographic copies and transfers .
The author lays great stress on the necessity , for this purpose , of preserving , during the operation , the closest contact of the photogra ?
phic paper used with the original to be copied .
3 .
The preparation of photographic paper .
Various experiments are detailed , made with the view of discovering modes of increasing the sensitiveness of the paper to the action of light ; and particularly of those combinations of chemical substances which , applied either in succession or in combination , prepare it for that action .
The ope ?
ration of the oxide of lead in its saline combinations as a mordent is studied ; and the influence which the particular kind of paper used has on the result , is also examined , and various practical rules are deduced from these experiments .
The author describes a method of precipitating on glass a coating possessing photographic properties , and thereby of accomplishing a new and curious extension of the art of photography .
He observes , that this method of coating glass with nlms of precipitated argentine , or other compounds , affords the only effectual means of studying their habitudes on exposure to light , and of estimating their degree of sensibility , and other parti ?
culars of their deportment under the influence of reagents .
After stating the result of his trials with the iodide , chloride , and bromide of silver , he suggests that trials should be made with the fluoride , from which , if it be found to be decomposed by light , the corrosion of the glass , and consequently an etching , might possibly be obtained , by the liberation of fluorine .
As it is known that light reduces the salts of gold and of platinum , as well as those of silver , the author was induced to make many experiments on the chlorides of these metals , in reference to the objects of photography ; the details of which experiments are given .
A remarkable property of hydriodic salts , applied , under certain circumstances , to exalt the deoxidating action of light , and even to call into evidence that action , when it did not before exist , or else was masked , is then described .
4 .
The chemical analysis of the solar spectrum forms the subject of the next section of his paper .
It has long been known that rays of different colours and refrangibilities exert very different degrees of energy in effecting chemical changes ; and that those occupying the violet end of the spectrum possess the greatest deoxidating powers .
But the author finds that these chemical energies are distributed throughout the whole of the spectrum ; that they are not a mere function of the refrangibility , but stand in relation to physical qualities of another kind , both of the ray and of the analysing medium ; and that this relation is by no means the same as the one which determines the absorptive action of the medium on the colorific rays .
His experiments also show that there is a third set of relations con ?
cerned in this action , and most materially influencing both the amount and the character of the chemical action on each point of the spec ?
trum ; namely , those depending on the physical qualities of the substance on which the rays are received , and whose changes indicate and measure their action .
The author endeavoured to detect the existence of inactive spaces in the chemical spectrum , analogous to the dark lines in the lumi ?
nous one ; but without any marked success .
The attempt , however , revealed several curious facts .
The maximum of action on the most ordinary description of photographic paper , namely , that prepared with common salt , was found to be , not beyond the violet , but about the confines of the blue and green , near the situation of the ray F in Fraunhofer 's scale : and the visible termination of the violet rays nearly bisected the photographic image impressed on the paper : in the visible violet rays there occurred a sort of minimum of action , about one-third of the distance from Fraunhofer 's ray H , towards G : the whole of the red , up to about Fraunhofer 's line C appears to be inactive ; and lastly , the orange-red rays communicate to the paper a brick-red tint passing into green and dark blue .
Hence are deduced , first , the absolute necessity of perfect achromaticity in the object-glass of a photographic camera ; and secondly , the possibility of the future production of naturally coloured photographs .
5 .
The extension of the visible prismatic spectrum beyond the space ordinarily assigned to it , is stated as one of the results of these researches ; the author having discovered that beyond the extreme violet rays there exist luminous rays affecting the eyes with a sen ?
sation , not of violet , or of any other of the recognised prismatic hues , but of a colour which may be called lavender-grey , and exerting a powerful deoxidating action .
6 .
Chemical properties of the red end of the spectrum .
The rays occupying this part of the spectrum were found to exert an action of an opposite nature to that of the blue , violet , and lavender rays .
When the red rays act on prepared paper in conjunction with the diffused light of the sky , the discolorating influence of the latter is suspended , and the paper remains white ; but if the paper has been already discoloured by ordinary light , the red rays change its actual colour to a bright red .
7 .
The combined action of rays of different degrees of refrangibi ?
lity is next investigated ; and the author inquires more particularly into the effects of the combined action of a red ray with any other single ray in the spectrum ; whether any , and what differences exist between the joint , and the successive action of rays of any two different and definite refrangibilities ; and whether this action be ca ?
pable , or not , of producing effects , which neither of them , acting alone , would be competent to produce .
The result was that , although the previous action of the less refrangible rays does not appear to modify the subsequent effects produced by the more refrangible ; yet the converse of this proposition does not obtain , and the simultaneous action of both produces photographic effects very different from those which either of them , acting separately , are capable of producing .
8 .
In the next section , the chemical action of the solar s]Dectrum is traced much beyond the extreme red rays , and the red rays themselves are shown to exercise , under certain circumstances , a black ening or deoxidating power .
9 .
The author then enters into a speculation suggested by some in ?
dications which seem to have been afforded of an absorptive action in the sun 's atmosphere ; of a difference in the chemical agencies of those rays which issue from the central parts of his disc , and those which , emanating from its borders , have undergone the absorptive action of a much greater depth of his atmosphere ; and consequently of the existence of an absorptive solar atmosphere extending beyond the luminous one .
10 .
An account is next given of the effect of the spectrum on certain vegetable colours , as determined by a series of experiments , which the author has commenced , but in which the unfavourable state of the weather has , as yet , prevented him from making much progress .
11 .
The whitening power of the several rays of the spectrum under the influence of hydriodic salts , on paper variously prepared and previously darkened by the action of solar light .
The singular property belonging to the hydriodate of potash of rendering darkened photographic paper susceptible of being whitened by further expo ?
sure to light is here analysed , and shown to afford a series of new relations among the different parts of the spectrum , with respect to their chemical actions .
12 .
The Analysis of the Chemical Rays of the Spectrum by ab~ sorbent media , which forms the subject of the next section , opens a singularly wide field of inquiry ; and the author describes a variety of remarkable phenomena which have presented themselves in the course of his experiments on this subject .
They prove that the pho ?
tographic properties of coloured media do not conform to their colorific character ; the laws of their absorptive action as exerted on the chemical , being different and independent of those on the luminous rays : instances are given of the absence of any darkening effect in green and other rays of the more refrangible kind , which yet produce considerable illumination on the paper that receives them .
13 .
The exalting anddepressing power exercised by certain media , under peculiar circumstances of solar light , on the intensity of its chemical action .
This branch of the inquiry was suggested by the fact , noticed by the author in his former communication , that the dark ?
ening power of the solar rays was considerably increased by the interposition of a plate of glass in close contact with the photographic paper .
The influence of various other media , superposed on pre ?
pared paper , was ascertained by experiment , and the results are recorded in a tabular form .
14 .
The paper concludes with the description of an Actinograph , or self-registering Photometer for meteorological purposes : its objects being to obtain a permanent and self-comparable register and measure , first , of the momentary amount of general illumination in the visible hemisphere , which constitutes day-light ; and secondly , of the intensity , duration , and interruption of actual sunshine , or , when the sun is not visible , of that point in the clouded sky behind which the sun is situated .
In a postscript , dated March 3rd , 1840 , the author states that he has discovered a process by which the calorific rays in the solar spec ?
trum are made to affect a surface properly prepared for that purpose , so as to form what may be called a thermograph of the spec ?
trum ; in which the intensity of the thermic ray of any given refran ?
gibility is indicated by the degree of whiteness produced on a black ground , by the action of the ray at the points where it is received at that surface , the most remarkable result of which is the insula ?
tion of heat-spots or thermic images of the sun quite apart from the great body of the thermic spectrum .
Thus the whole extent over which prismatic dispersion scatters the sun 's rays , including the calorific effect of the least , and the chemical agency of the most re ?
frangible , is considerably more than twice as great as the Newtonian coloured spectrum .
In a second note , communicated March 12 , 1840 , the author describes his process for rendering visible the thermic spectrum , which consists in smoking one side of very thin white paper till it is completely blackened , exposing the white surface to the spectrum and washing it over with alcohol .
The thermic rays , by drying the points on which they impinge more rapidly than the rest of the surface , trace out their extent and the law of their distribution by a whiteness so induced on the general blackness which the whole surface acquires by the absorption of the liquid into the pores of the paper .
He also explains a method by which the impression thus made , and which is only transient , can be rendered permanent .
This method of observation is then applied to the further exa ?
mination of various points connected with the distribution of the thermic rays , the transcalescence of particular media , the polari ?
zation of radiant heat ( which is easily rendered sensible by this method ) , &amp;c. The reality of more or less insulated spots of heat dis ?
tributed at very nearly equal intervals along the axis of the spec ?
trum ( and of which the origin is probably to be sought in the flint glass prism used ' ?
but possibly in atmospheric absorption ) is esta ?
blished .
Of these spots , two of an oval form , are situated , the one nearly at , and the other some distance beyond the extreme red end of the spectrum , and are less distinctly insulated ; two , perfectly round and well-insulated , at greater distances in the same direction ; and one , very feeble and less satisfactorily made out , at no less a distance beyond the extreme red than 422 parts of a scale in which the whole extent of the Newtonian coloured spectrum occupies 539 .

