II .
" On the Bursa Fabricii .
" By JOHN DAVY , M.D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received March 24 , 1866 .
In this paper I have the honour to submit to the Society some observations which I have made on the Bursa Fabricii-an organ respecting the function of which so little has yet been determined with any certainty , some physiologists regarding it , after the manner of the author who first described it , as a receptaculum seminis , others as the analogue of Cowper 's glands , others as that of the prostate ; and one as that of the urinary bladder of fishes .
For the sake of ' order and to save some repetition , before entering into particulars it may not be amiss to state briefly that this peculiar organ , in every instance it is met with , is found to lie low in the cavity of the pelvis , behind the intestine , either directly in the median line , or a little on one side of it ; that it is covered anteriorly by the reflected peritoneum ; is composed mainly of two coats , one an outer muscular , the other an inner mucous , the latter in the instances of most development abounding in follicles ; that it communicates with the cloaca by an opening , in the female , close to the entrance of the oviduct , in the male between and a little inferior to that of each vas deferens , in both inferior to the termination of the ureters* ; and that it has over its orifice , when most perfect , a slight valvular fold , affording some , but not perfect , security against the entrance into its cavity of fsecal matter whilst passing in the act of expulsion .
What is remarkable in this organ , giving rise to much of the obscurity adverted to , is the different aspects which it exhibits in the same animal according to age , and the differences as to form and proportional size and degree of persistence which it presents in different species .
The number of birds in which I have sought for the organ , and have examined it when found , has been considerable , at least thirty different species , all of them , with the exception of the skylark , belonging to or frequenters of the Lake district .
I may further briefly premise that , when the microscope has been used , the power employed has been that of -th inch focal distance , and that , when spermatozoa have been sought for , a drop of a solution of common salt of the sp. gr. 1038 , has been added to the fluid to be examined .
In the descriptive part which follows , I propose to confine myself to the more striking examples illustrative of the peculiarities adverted to and likely to aid in accounting for them , passing over the several species , or very briefly noticing them , when displaying n marked difference .
I. Common F owl ( Gallus domesticus).-I begin with this bird , as I have had the best opportunity of examining it at different ages .
1 .
Of a chicken four days old , the bursa was about the size of a small pea ; it communicated with the cloaca , and was empty .
2 .
Of another chicken , seventeen days old , found dead on the 10th of March from cold , the bursa measured *3 by '2 inch ; it was distinctly plicated internally ; it was empty .
3 .
Of a young cock , eleven weeks old , examined on the 16th of June , the bursa , of a globular form , was 1 1I inch in diameter ; it communicated with the cloaca by a narrow neck about 15 inch in width ; internally it was strongly plicated ; the projecting laminie were of a crescentic form , about twenty in number , and their width , where widest , was about *4 inch .
It contained some turbid fluid , in which were numerous mucus-like corpuscles and a few well-defined spermatozoa .
The testes were large ; besides sperm-cells , they contained some spermatozoa .
4 .
Of another cock , hatched in July , examined when nineteen weeks and six days old , the bursa , 1'2 inch in diameter , weighed 74 grs. ; it was similar to the preceding in structure , and was empty .
5 .
Of a third male , hatched on the 19th of September , examined when twenty-one weeks and one day old , weighing six pounds , the bursa was 1'5 inch in diameter ; its plicae like the preceding , its opening into the cloaca large ; many spermatozoa were found in the little turbid fluid with which they were moistened .
The testes were large ; the left weighed 144 grs. , the right 130 grs. ; the vasa deferentia were small .
6 .
Of a fourth , hatched on the 18th of October , examinied on the 20th of March , when seventeen weeks and seven days old , weight five pounds , the bursa , compared with the preceding , was of diminished size ; its diameter only '6 inch , its plicae few , short and thick , and bloodshot ; its opening into the cloaca large and exposed , without any valvular protection .
It contained a little thick mucus , in which there was commingled an appearance of spermatozoa .
The testes were large , and abounded in spermcells and spermatozoa ; and the vasa deferentia were well developed , and contained a cream-like fluid rich in delicate spermatozoa* .
7 .
In a fifth , a cock of about six years old , weighing four pounds and a half , no traces of a bursa could be found .
The vasa deferentia were large , and were distended with a cream-like fluid abounding in spermatozoa .
They terminated well apart in the cloaca , and had neither of them a visible papilla* .
The right testis weighed 93'7 grs. , the left 119'7 grs. 8 .
Of a young hen , hatched on the 17th of May , examined when eleven weeks old , the bursa was more flask-like than globular ; it measured 1'7 by 1'5 inch .
Its plicm were large , and their glandular structure so well developed that the orifices of the follicles , as puncta , were seen with the naked eye .
The bursa was empty , merely moistened with mucous fluid .
9 .
Of a hen hatched on the 17th of Aarch , examined when seventeen weeks and five days old , the bursa was about the same size and form as that of the preceding ; it contained a small quantity of turbid mucous fluid , in which were seen delicate filaments bearing a resemblance to spermatozoa .
10 .
Of another , hatched in May , and which , like the preceding , had never laid , examined when nineteen weeks old , the bursa , which was empty , measured 1'7 by 1'5 inch .
11 .
Of a fourth , hatched on the 19th of September , said to have laid and known to have been trod , examined when twenty-four weeks old , the bursa was of shrunken appearance ; it was '5 inch in diameter ; its parietes thick ( '2 inch thick ) ; there were no plica ; it communicated freely with the cloaca , and contained a little mucous fluid in which were seen filaments like spermatozoa , but not unmistakeably such .
There was a large ovum nearly ready to be detached from the ovary .
A very few tolerably distinct spermatozoa were found in the oviduct , which was well developed .
12 .
In a fifth , hatched on the 19th of July , examined when twenty weeks and five days old , after having laid about twenty-five eggs , no vestige of a bursa could be detected t. 13 .
Of another , about eight months old , examined on the 17th of March , after having laid three or four eggs , the bursa was of a tubular form , *9 inch long by '1 wide ; its walls were exceedingly thin , and it did not communicate with the cloaca .
In the little turbid mucous fluid it contained , a single spermatozoon was detected .
There was a fully formed egg in the oviduct , the incrustation of which had begun .
Nearest the infundibulum many spermatozoa were found .
14 .
In a laying hen about three years old the bursa was reduced to a small hard mass , hardly equal to a pea in size .
It contained a minute cavity without an opening into the cloaca .
15 .
In another , about three years and a half old , no traces of a bursa could be detected .
Its cloaca and oviduct were very large , as were also those of the preceding .
II .
Pheasant ( Phasianus colchicus ) .
In ten examined ( seven males , three females ) , with the exception of three ( inferred to be old birds ) , the organ in question was found .
It resembled in structure that of the common fowl of from four to eight months old .
In each instance it was empty , merely wet with mucous fluid .
These birds were shot in November , December , January , and February .
Not knowing their precise age , but supposing them to have been hatched in the spring , their bursa as to size was somewhat less than that of the common fowl .
The smallest , that of a hen shot in February , measured '3 inch by 2 ; it retained its plicated structure , and freely communicated with the cloaca .
III .
Partridge ( Perdix cinerea).-Of this bird three specimens have been examined .
In one , apparently old , no trace could be found of a bursa .
In the other two , in which it occurred , it resembled in form and structure that of the common fowl ; it measured *4 inch by '3 .
These were young birds which had taken wing .
IV .
Turkey ( Meleagris gallopavo ) .
In three instances of this bird , all hatched in spring , one examined in October , one in December , one in January , the bursa was found similar to that of the common fowl , and in each nearly of the same size , about .
5 inch by 7 .
V. Grouse ( Tetrao scoticus ) .
In a young bird , not fully fledged , just capable of a short flight , shot in the island of Lewis on the 12th of August , expressly for the purpose of examination , the bursa was found small , about the size of a pea .
Air was found in its humeri , but only partially in its femora .
In two , both from Scotland , later in the season , no bursa could be detected .
Their femora contained air as well as their humeri .
VI .
Pigeon ( Columba domestica ) .
In two full-grown males examined in September , no trace was found of a bursa ; in other two ( these younger birds ) the bursa was pretty large .
VII .
Buzztard ( Falco buteo).-Of a young one taken from its nest on the 9th of June , when about a fortnight old , the bursa was globular and comparatively large , about *8 inch in diameter , non-plicated , and empty .
This nestling weighed 5193 grs. ; it was covered , except at the umbilicus , where bare , with plush-like yellow feathers , thick , very closely set , equal in weight to 647 grs. VIII .
Sparrow-hawk ( Falco nisus).-Of a young bird , examined on the 31st of July , just capable of flight , weighing 3686 grs. , its sternum still cartilaginous , its humeri only partially filled with air , the bursa was small .
In another , a male , apparently an old bird , shot on the 8th of March , no traces of bursa were found .
It weighed 2836 grs. IX .
Tawny Owl ( Strix stridula).-Of a young one taken from its nest on the 21st of June , when well fledged , but its quill-feathers not fully formed , weight 4496 grs. , the bursa was globular and comparatively large , *7 inch 1866.1 in diameter .
It contained a good deal of turbid urinary fluid abounding in lithate of ammonia .
It had no air in any of its bones .
In an old bird , the parent of the preceding , no bursa was found .
X. Cuckoo ( Cuculus canorus).-Of a young one shot on the 25th of August , weight 1310 grs. ( judging from its plumage , a bird of this season ) , the bursa was very small .
In another , a male* , an older bird , shot on the 6th of June , weight 1768 grs. , no traces could be found of a bursa .
XI .
Common Goose.-Of one hatched in the spring , examined when about six months old , the bursa , of an ovoid form , measured 1'2 by '7 inch .
It was plicated , like that of the common fowl .
Of two others , one four months old , one of about eight months , the bursa was about the same size as the preceding .
XII .
Common Duck.--Of one , a male hatched in March , the bursa was of a cylindrical form , 1'6 inch long by *4 inch wide .
Its lining membrane was without plicae ; the apertures of the mucous follicles were conspicuous , and arranged in parallel lines .
It contained some dark fmecal matter similar to that in the intestine .
Of another male , about three months old , the bursa was of a flask-like form , 2-6 inches in length , '6 inch in width where widest ; in structure like the preceding .
It contained a turbid greyish fluid , in which were suspended granules and small globules .
It was coagulated by nitric acid .
Of a female , about a month older , of the same brood , the bursa resembled the last .
Of another female , a little more than a year old , the bursa was very small ; its cavity was not quite obliterated , nor was its opening into the cloaca closed .
Of a male about two years old , no traces remained of a bursa .
XIII .
Water-hen ( Gallinula chloropus).-Of a male shot in November , the bursa , of a flask-like form , was *6 inch by A4 ; its cavity was small and without plicae .
XIV .
Common Coot ( Ftlica atra ) .
In a male shot on the 8th of Miarch no bursa was found .
XV .
Common Gull ( Larus canus).-The same remark applies to one examined in January .
XVI .
foodcock ( Scolopax rusticola ) .
In two examined , one in December , the other in February , no traces of a bursa were found .
XVII .
Rook ( Corvus frugilegus).-Of this bird thirteen specimens have been examined .
In eight no traces of a bursa were detected ; from their appearance and the quality of their bones , it was inferred that they were a year or more old .
In the remaining five a bursa was met with ; three were examined in May , two in August ; all had the marks of young birds .
Of one , which weighed 6132 grs. , caught when not quite capable of flight , the bursa was nearly globular and about '7 by *6 inch ; it was distended , as was also the cloaca , with a turbid fluid abounding in lithate of ammonia .
Its inner surface was not plicated , but slightly pitted .
Of the others , the bursa differed little from the last ; it was somewhat smaller .
In the bursa of one of these some flakes were found , consisting chiefly of lithate of ammonia .
XVIII .
Carrion-crow ( C. corone).-Of a young male shot on the 21st of June the bursa was globular , very like that of the rook , about *7 inch in diameter ; it contained some flakes of lithate of ammonia .
Of another , shot on the 30th of June , weight 6163 grs. , the bursa was somewhat different in form ; it was broadest at its base ; it measured '9 by *8 inch .
Of one killed on the 16th of July , weight 5653 grs. , the bursa was smaller ; it contained some flakes of lithate of ammonia .
Of a fourth , killed in February , which , judging from the smallness of the oviduct , was not an old bird , the bursa , had it not been for its opening into the cloaca , might have escaped observation , not on account of its smallness , for it was little less than that of the preceding , but from the extreme thinness of its coats and adherence to the adjoining tissues .
XIX .
Jackdaw ( C. monedula).-Three specimens have been examined .
Two of these were old ; in neither of them was there a bursa : one was young ; it was shot on the 1 1th of July , and was fully fledged ; its bursa was pretty large , similar to that of the rook , and empty .
XX .
Jay ( C. glandarius).-Of one , judging from the state of its bones , hatched in spring , the bursa was comparatively large , heart-shaped , measuring ?
6 by *4 inch .
Its cavity was small ; its inner surface smooth , without plicae .
XXI .
Blackbird ( Turdus merula).-Six different specimens have been examined .
In an old bird shot in M arch , a male , no trace of a bursa was found .
In an unfledged nestling , weighing 112 grs. , found dead , the bursa was so thin as to be translucent ; it was proportionally large , and contained some flakes of lithate of ammonia .
In the others , which were examined between the middle of June and the beginning of October , none of them , it was inferred , more than five months old , the bursa , nearly globular , was from about '4 to *5 inch in diameter ; its lining membrane was smooth ; its parietes proportionally thick .
In each instance it was empty .
XXII .
Song-thrush ( T. musicus ) .
In an old male examined on the 28th of June no bursa was found .
Of two young ones obtained on the 15th of the same month , the bursa was about the size of a large pea ; one was empty , the other contained some lithate of ammonia .
XXIII .
Water-ousel ( T. cinclus ) .
In one , a male , probably a young one , a small bursa was found .
It was shot on the 11th of November .
In another , an older bird ( judging from its appearance ) , shot at the same time , there was no trace of a bursa* ; and the same remark applies to a third examined in January .
XXIV .
Common Starling ( Sturnus vulgaris).-Of a young one shot on the 29th of June , the bursa was about the size of that of theyoung thrush .
In two old birds shot on the 7th of March , not a trace of the organ was found .
XXV .
Skylark ( Alauda arvensis ) .
In two examined .
in January there was the like deficiency .
XXVI .
CiZffchaff ( Trochilus minor).-Of one , a young bird , examined on the 14th of July , the bursa , of moderate size , contained a little fsecal matter .
In another , an older bird , shot in March no bursa could be found .
XXVII .
Robin ( Sylvia rubecula).-Of a young one found dead on the 16th of June , still warm , weight 255 grs. , the bursa was of moderate size .
Of another , nearly fully fledged , found dead on the 25th of June , weight 285 grs. , the bursa was comparatively large , exceeding a little in size that of the preceding .
XXVIII .
Yellow Ammer ( Emberiza citrinella ) .
In one , a male , its testes abounding in spermatozoa , examined on the 16th of June , there was no trace of a bursa .
XXIX .
Blue Tit ( Parus ceruleus).-Of two young ones examined on the 8th of June , when just able to fly , one weighing 177'5 grs. , the other 162 grs. , the bursa was comparatively large ; in each it was empty .
XXX .
Cole Tit ( P. ater ) .
In one examined in February no trace of the organ could be found .
XXXI .
Martin ( Hirundo urbica).-Of three young ones taken from the nest on the 10th of July , the bursa was comparatively large ; in each it was empty .
One nestling weighed 414 grs. , another 398 grs. , the third 423'5 grs. The parent birds were both found of less weight ; that of the male was 263 grs. , of the female 287'4 grs. In the latter a distinct bursa was found , little less than that of the young birds .
Search was made for spermatozoa , but none were found in it .
Of the male , the pelvis was so injured by shot that it was useless for examination .
In a male shot on the 1st of August , the testes of which contained spermatozoa , no trace of a bursa was found .
From the preceding results may not the following conclusions be drawn ?
1st , That in some birds , as in the common fowl , and probably in all the gallinaceous family , and that of the Anatidme , the bursa increases in size and in completeness of organization up to a certain age , beyond which it gradually diminishes equally in both sexes , and eventually disappears .
2nd .
That in other birds , those of rapid growth , which take wing as soon as they are capable of flight , the bursa is comparatively large whilst they are nestlings , does not increase conspicuously , if at all , with their growth , but rather diminishes , and after a certain age disappears , and probably sooner than in the first mentioned .
The buzzard and owl are examples , and probably all birds of the same family , all of the Corvince , all of the thrush kind , and all the smaller birds , with the exception perhaps of the female martin .
Of the uses of the organ , I venture to conjecture , founding my conjectures on what I have observed , that they may be provisional and various ; that in some birds , whilst nestlings , it may act the part of a urinary bladder , as witnessed in the instance of the young owl , and in some of the young rooks , crows , and thrushes , thereby tending to prevent the fouling of the nests ; that in others it may serve as a seminal reservoir at an early period , and in both male and female in the instances mentioned , in which it has been found most completely formed before the attainment of full sizein the male before the vasa deferentia are fully developed , in the female so long as the oviduct is still small and unexpanded ; and that generally , as the organ is more or less amply supplied with mucous follicles , it may serve , by the secretion it yields , to lubricate the cloaca with which it is connected , and to aid in its functions .
These conjectures , or inferences , if deserving of being so considered , might be supported by what we know of the structure of the part and its position in relation to the termination of the ureters , of the spermatic vessels , and of the oviduct ; but I think it better to rest them on the facts observedthe urinary matter detected in the organ in some instances , the spermatozoa in others* , and the mucous fluid generally .
But granting even that the bursa may be useful , and in the female as well as in the male , in aid of fecundation , as Fabricius supposed , yet his extreme view that that aid , in the stored-up spermatic fluid in the bursa of the hen bird , might suffice for a year , as stated in the subjoined passaget , for which and for other extracts I am indebted to the kindness of Professor Sharpey , is both highly improbable , and is opposed by the fact of the decrease of the bursa with the advancing age of the fowl , and the enlargement of the ovi* As in no instance I have yet found unquestionable spermatozoa in the bursa of the young hen , I cannot fairly infer that the bursa in the female is a receptaculum seminis ; but as in two instances there were detected in it filaments which were very like these bodies , and in one a single pretty distinct spermatozoon , and further , as the bursa seems to diminish rapidly as the oviduct becomes developed and not till then , is it not probable that for a short time it may perform the part assigned , as conjectured above ?
It need hardly be remarked that the mucous secretion of the bursa adds to the difficulty of demonstrating the presence of spermatozoa .
t " Semen autem Galli ad podicem immittitur , et in vesica reponitur et conservatur , quousque pullus conformetur ; immo vero per totum integrum anni tempus inibi servatur , postea quam semel admisso Gallo , ova omnia per totum illud anni tempus ftecunda redduntur , tanquam vesica unicum ob id foramen habente , ut in concluso loco semen Galli diutius ut in proprio et congrlo loco servetur."-Opp .
Omnia , Lugd. Bat .
1738 , p. 21 .
duct and of the vasa deferentia .
Harvey , who was opposed to the notion of Fabricius , expresses the opinion that an intercourse once or twice repeated might suffice to impregnate a whole bunch of yelks , he having found that an egg laid on the 20th day of seclusion of a hen produced a chick* .
This fact is an interesting one , however explained .
It might be adduced in favour of the opinion of Fabricius ; but inasmuch as the passage of the fully-formed egg in the act of expulsion does not necessarily secure the expulsion of any spermatozoa previously received into the oviduct , it is of little value in the argument : and here I may mention that I have detected spermatozoa in the oviduct , even in that portion in which the egg was receiving its calcareous incrustation .

