II .
" Note on the Formation and Phenomena of Clouds .
" By JOHN TYNDALL , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received January 25 , 1869 .
It is well known that when a receiver filled with ordinary undried air is exhausted , a cloudiness , due to the precipitation of the aqueous vapour diffused in the air , is produced by the first few strokes of the pump .
It is , as might be expected , possible to produce clouds in this way with the vapours of other liquids than water .
In the course of the experiments on the chemical action of light which have been aready communicated in abstract to the Ioyal Society , I had frequent occasion to observe the precipitation of such clouds in the experimental tubes employed ; indeed several days at a time have been devoted solely to the generation and examination of clouds formed by the sudden dilatation of the air in the experimental tubes .
The clouds were generated in two ways : one mode consisted in opening the passage between the filled experimental tube and the air-pump , and then simply dilating the air by working the pump .
In the other , the experimental tube was connected with a vessel of suitable size , the passage between which and the experimental tube could be closed by a stopcock .
This vessel was first exhausted ; on turning the cock the air rushed from the experimental tube into the vessel , the precipitation of a cloud within the tube being a consequence of the transfer .
Instead of a special vessel , the cylinders of the air-pump itself were usually employed for this purpose .
It was found possible , by shutting off the residue of air and vapour after each act of precipitation , and again exhausting the cylinders of the pump , to obtain with some substances , and without refilling the experimental tube , fifteen or twenty clouds in succession .
The clouds thus precipitated differed from each other in luminous energy , some shedding forth a mild white light , others flashing out with sudden and surprising brilliancy .
This difference of action is , of course , to be referred to the different reflective energies of the particles of the clouds , which were produced by substances of very different refractive indices .
Different clouds , moreover , possess very different degrees of stability ; some melt away rapidly , while others linger for minutes in the experimental tube , resting upon its bottom as they dissolve like a heap of snow .
The particles of other clouds are trailed through the experimental tube as if they were moving through a viscous medium .
Nothing can exceed the splendour of the diffraction-phenomena exhibited by some of these clouds ; the colours are best seen by looking along the experimental tube from a point above it , the face being turned towards the source of illumination .
The differential motions introduced by friction against the interior surface of the tube often cause the colours to arrange themselves in distinct layers .
The difference in texture exhibited by different clouds caused me to look a little more closely than I had previously done into the mechanism of cloud-formation .
A certain expansion is necessary to bring down the cloud ; the moment before precipitation the mass of cooling air and vapour may be regarded as divided into a number of polyhedra , the particles along the bounding surfaces of which move in opposite directions when precipitation actually sets in .
Every cloud-particle has consumed a polyhedron of vapour in its formation ; and it is manifest that the size of the particle must depend , not only on the size of the vapour polyhedron , but also on the relation of the density of the vapour to that of its liquid .
If the vapour were light , and the liquid heavy , other things being equal , the cloud-particle would be smaller than if the vapour were heavy and the liquid light .
There would evidently be more shrinkage in tKe one case than in the other : these considerations were found valid througohut the experiments ; the case of toluol may be taken as representative of a great number of others .
The specific gravity of this liquid is 0'85 , that of water being unity ; the specific gravity of its vapour is 3'26 , that of aqueous vapour being 0'6 .
Now , as the size of the cloud-particle is directly proportional to the specific gravity of the vapour , and inversely proportional to the specific gravity of the liquid , an easy calculation proves that , assuming the size of the vapour polyhedra in both cases to be the same , the size of the particle of toluol cloud must be more than six times that of the particle of aqueous cloud .
It is probably impossible to test this question with numerical accuracy ; but the comparative coarseness of the toluol cloud is strikingly manifest to the naked eye .
' The case is , as I have said , representative .
In fact , aqueous vapour is without a parallel in these particulars ; it is not only the lightest of all vapours , in the common acceptance of that term , but the lightest of all gases except hydrogen and ammonia .
To this circumstance the soft and tender beauty of the clouds of our atmosphere is mainly to be ascribed .
The sphericity of the cloud-particles may be immediately inferred from their deportment under the luminous beams .
The light which they shed when spherical is continuous : but clouds may also be precipitated in solid flakes ; and then the incessant sparkling of the cloud shows that its particles are plates , and not spheres .
Some portions of the same cloud may be composed of spherical particles , others of flakes , the difference being at once manifested through the calmness of the one portion of the cloud , and the uneasiness of the other .
The sparkling of such flakes reminded me of the plates of mica in the liver Rhone at its entrance into the lake of Geneva , when shone upon by a strong sun .

