Appendix to the preceding Paper on the Changes which appear to have taken place in the Declination of some of the fixed Stars .
By John Pond , Esq. Astronomer Royal , F.R.S. Read November 14 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 39 .
] The author states that the observations made at Greenwich during the last summer have confirmed his former results , showing most decidedly that the computed places of the principal fixed stars do not agree with those determined by actual observation .
He finds the general tendency of the deviation to be southward , but inconsiderable in about one third part of the heavens as to right ascension , in which part , from the zenith to the pole , stars appear a very small quantity to the northward ; in the remaining part , as to right ascension , all the stars deviate to the south , and with a few exceptions the southern more so than the northern ones .
He then inquires , whether these deviations admit of explanation by supposing them to arise from errors in the instrument , or in the mode of observing .
If occasioned by the general uncertainty of astronomical observation , they would be found to follow no law at all ; if by errors in the instrument , they would bear some direct proportion to zenith distance .
But these anomalies are shown to depend rather on right ascension than on zenith distance ; and as it cannot be conceived in what way error of zenith distance can be influenced by right ascension , the supposition of error in the instrument will not account for the deviations .
In further proof of this , numerous examples are given of unequal or opposite deviation in stars adjacent as to polar distance , but of opposite right ascension ; in all which cases , owing to the shortness of the arc to be measured , and the constancy therefore of the error affecting it , the deviation of the stars , .
if owing to the instrument , would be the same both in direction and degree .
The author next considers the different hypotheses that may be entertained by those who , not convinced by the preceding arguments , may yet be disposed to attribute these discordances to error .
Admitting the accuracy of Bradley 's observations to form the groundwork of the present inquiry , they must suppose either the Catalogue of 1813 , or that of the present period , to be erroneous .
If , assuming the present catalogue to be correct , we interpolate between it and that of Dr. Bradley , for the purpose of ascertaining the defects of the Catalogue of 1813 , the latter will be found to have been erroneous beyond belief , and that of Dr. Brinkley , made about the same period , to have been rather more so .
It will also follow , from the same admission , that the errors attributable to flexure committed in 1813 have since disappeared , and the instrument has gradually become more perfect ; whereas the natural tendency of such a defect would be to increase , and to give receipts every year more and more distant from the truth .
The validity of the second hypothesis is next examined , which , assuming the Catalogue of 1813 to be correct , regards the present as erroneous ; and this leads the author to inquire , what confidence is due to the Greenwich observations of |the present day .
His principal reliance on their accuracy he founds on the coincidence of the results obtained by the two independent methods of direct vision and reflection , and he shows in what manner this coincidence of the two results is a proof of the accuracy of either .
The general tendency of all instruments , he observes , is to undergo equal and opposite flexures , at equal elevations on either side of the zenith , whence it cannot be inferred , with regard to instruments that turn in azimuth , that flexure does not take place , from stars of different altitudes giving the same error of collimation .
But on the contrary , if , .
by the method of reflection , stars of different altitudes give the same horizontal point , the strongest proof will be afforded of the non-flexure of the instrument .
These equal and opposite flexures on opposite sides of the zenith , will , in our latitudes , affect stars near the equator by errors in polar distance about double of the errors committed in stars near the zenith .
These views are illustrated by a comparison of the Greenwich Catalogue with those of Dr. Brinkley and Mr. Bessel ; .
and since the two latter , in conformity with the law of flexure , differ from one another by 5 " near the equator , and by only half that quantity near the zenith , it is inferred that the instruments used by those two astronomers , one or both of them , are liable to flexure .
Since those stars must be most correctly determined by the method of reflection , whose altitude is the least , on account of the shortness of the arc to be measured , the author considers hiomself entitled to .
decide what is the share of error which , in stars near the equator , belong to each of these catalogues .
In stars so situated , Dr. Brinkley 's polar distances exceed the author 's by about 2 " , and Mr. Bessel 's fall short of them by about 3 " ; .
and since the Greenwich Catalogue .
everywhere divides the difference of the two catalogues in nearly the same ratio , it is considered probable that the errors of each through- , out are nearly in the same proportion .

