I. " On some Varieties of Tannin .
" By JOHN STENHOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. , F.C.S. Received June 28 , 1861 .
In two communications " On some Astringent Substances as sources of Pyrogallic Acid , " read before the London Chemical Society in the years 1842 , 1843 , I showed that the usual division of the varieties of tannin into two genera-to wit , those which give black , and those which give green precipitates with salts of iron , -though called in question by Berzelius , is still well-founded : and likewise , that these two genera consist of a great variety of species , which , though closely resembling each other in properties , are still dissimilar in nature ; the only instances in which the same species of tannin had been procured from two different plants , being those of nut-galls and sumach .
Professor Strecker 's important observation made some seven years ago , that grape-sugar is produced when the tannin of gall-nuts is boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , seemed to render a further examination of the varieties of tannin desirable .
Sumach .
As the tannin of Sumach cannot be obtained in such a high state of purity as that of nut-galls by Pelouze 's ether process , I was obliged to employ other methods by no means so satisfactory , but which still yield a tolerably pure tannin .
A strong decoction of sumach was therefore treated with acetate of lead , which threw down a pale yellow precipitate .
This was washed by decantation , and then decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen and filtered : the filtrate having been boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , on standing for some time , deposited crystals of impure gallic acid .
These were collected on a filter , and the mother-liquor , when neutralized with chalk , gave abundant indications of sugar , both by Trommer 's test and when subjected to fermentation .
A second decoction of sumach , when cold , was treated with sulphuric acid , which threw down a copious precipitate ; this when boiled was also resolved into gallic acid and grapesugar .
This reaction , therefore , in addition to former experiments , serves to confirm the identity of tannin in oak-galls and sumach .
When sumach is long kept , the tannin it contains appears to be resolved in a great measure into gallic acid and grape-sugar , owing to its undergoing a species of natural fermentation .
Accordingly under these circumstances when simply boiled with water , sumach emits an odour resembling that of tea , and yields a large quantity of sugar and gallic acid , but mixed with much impurity .
Sumach therefore , though it contains much gallic acid , owing to the impurities present in it , is not a good source of that acid .
I may also remark that the amount of tannin in sumach varies considerably , some specimens being very rich and others very poor .
This probably arises from the circumstance that the sumach of commerce is the product of various kinds of Rhuis , such as Rhus cotinus , Rhus coriaria , &amp;c. Chinese Galls .
These singularly-shaped galls , which are angular and slightly translucent , have been imported into this country in small quantities for the last fourteen or fifteen years .
They are said to be found on the branches of a plant which grows in Japan .
From the small amount of the colouring matter they contain , Chinese galls are greatly preferred for the manufacture of gallic acid .
Oak-galls , on the other hand , are the best source of pyrogallic acid .
The decoction of Chinese galls gave a copious white precipitate with acetate of lead .
This was decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen , and filtered ; the clear liquid , when boiled with sulphuric acid , was resolved into gallic acid and grape-sugar , as in the two preceding instances .
Another portion of the filtered liquid was evaporated to dryness , and destructively distilled .
It yielded a very large quantity of pyrogallic acid .
It is clear , therefore , that gall-nuts , Chinese galls , and the various kinds of sumach , contain the same species of tannin .
The Tannin in Tea .
The tannin both of green and black tea is invariably accompanied by a small quantity of gallic acid , which does not arise from the decomposition of the tannin in the tea , as is the case with nut-galls , sumach , or Chinese galls .
On treating a strong decoction of tea , when cold , with nearly half its bulk of sulphuric acid , the tannin falls as a dark brown precipitate .
This was collected on a cloth filter , strongly compressed , and washed with a little cold water to free it as much as possible from adhering impurities .
The precipitated tannin , when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , did not yield a trace either of grapesugar or gallic acid , but was changed into a dark brown substance nearly insoluble in water .
It dissolved pretty readily in alcohol , forming a dark brown solution , from which , however , no crystals could be obtained .
Oak.barkfrom Quercus pedunculata .
A decoction of oak-bark gave a dark brown precipitate with acetate of lead .
This was decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen .
The filtered solution , when boiled with sulphuric acid , yielded grape-sugar and a reddish-brown precipitate , but no gallic acid .
The reddishbrown precipitate dissolved with difficulty in spirit of wine , but gave no crystals on standing .
Rochleder has stated that tea and oakbark contain the same species of tannin .
They certainly resemble each other in their general characters ; but as the tannin of oak-bark yields sugar when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , while that of tea does not yield a trace of sugar , it is clear that the two tannins are not identical .
Valonia , the acorn of the Quercus 3Egilops .
This species of tannin , which has a bright yellow colour , when treated in the way already described , yielded sugar , but no gallic acid .
The tannin of pomegranate rind also gave abundant indications of sugar , but no gallic acid .
The tannin of Myrobalans , the fruit of Terminalia Chebula , gave similar results .
Tannins which give green precipitates with persalts of Iron .
Salix triandra and Salix undulata ( the willows generally used for basket making).-A quantity of the bark of these two willows , when boiled with water , yielded a dark brown solution .
This , when treated with acetate of lead , gave a copious precipitate of a brownish-yellow colour .
This lead-salt was decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen ; and the clear filtered liquid , when boiled with sulphuric acid and then neutralized with chalk , gave abundant indications of grapesugar .
Another portion of the solution from the decomposed leadprecipitate , when digested with nitric acid , yielded only oxalic acid .
When a decoction of willow-bark is boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , the brown-coloured liquid becomes very red , and a flocculent brownish-red precipitate falls which is nearly insoluble in water , but dissolves pretty readily in hot spirit of wine and in alkaline leys .
The brownish-red precipitate , when dissolved in spirit of wine and left to spontaneous evaporation , did not crystallize , but formed a dark brownish resin .
It consisted chiefly of impure saliratine , resulting most probably from the decomposition of salicine in solution .
When it was digested with nitric acid it yielded a good deal of nitropicric acid .
Willow-bark , therefore , is a tolerably good source of this acid .
Alder-bark ( Alnus glutinosa).-Alder-bark yields a dark red decoction with water .
It was precipitated with acetate of lead , and the lead-salt decomposed with sulphuretted hydrogen .
It formed a dark red solution , which on digestion with sulphuric acid yielded no sugar .
Catechu.-It was the light-coloured cubical variety of catechu that I employed .
The tannin from this astringent substance , when digested with dilute sulphuric acid , yielded no sugar , a result which corresponds with Neubauer 's experiments ( Ann. der Chem. und Pharm. vol. xcv .
p. 103 ) .
Larch-bark ( Pinus larix , Linn.).--The bark of the larch is employed in Scotland to some extent in tanning , though the leather made with it is inferior in quality .
Larch-bark contains a good deal of a peculiar tannin , which yields olive-green precipitates with salts of iron .
The aqueous solution of larch-bark is strongly acid to testpaper , and has at first a pale yellow colour , which exposure to the air renders brownish-red .
Acetate of lead threw down a copious yellow precipitate : this was decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen and boiled with dilute sulphuric acid , when the liquid assumed a fine scarlet colour , like infusion of Brazil-wood .
The altered tannin precipitated on cooling in beautiful red flocks , as it is but little soluble in cold water .
It is very soluble in alcohol , and its solution has a rich scarlet colour , which is characteristic of this species of tannin .
Its alcoholic solution , when left to spontaneous evaporation , did not yield crystals , but formed a dark resinous mass .
The clear liquid from which the red flocks were precipitated , when neutralized with chalk , gave no indications of sugar .
Sugar , however , together with a good deal of mucilage and resinous matter , with some larixinic acid , is contained in the crude decoction of larch-bark .
Bark of the common black Mangrove ( Rhizophora Mangle of botanists).-This species of mangrove-bark is used in tanning , and is occasionally imported into Great Britain for this purpose .
It has a brownish-red colour : the colour of its decoction is the same .
The tannin it contains is precipitated from its solution both by acetate of lead and concentrated sulphuric acid .
When boiled with dilute sulphuric acid no sugar is produced , and the brownish-red precipitate which falls cannot be made to crystallize .
In conclusion , I would observe that it is somewhat remarkable that so many of the tannins which give bluish-black precipitates with persalts of iron are glucosides ; whereas of those which give olivegreen precipitates with persalts of iron , so far as I know , only one to wit , the tannin of the willow-is a glucoside .

