XXI .
Some observations on the buffy coat of the Blood , &amp;c. By JOHN DAVY , M. D. F. R. S. Read April 18 , 1822 .
1 .
THE buffy coat , as it is technically called , which appears on blood drawn from persons labouring under inflammatory disease , has been referred , by Mr. HEWSON , to two circumstances ; to increased tenuity of the blood , and to its slow coagulation.* But , in the explanation which is now usually given of the phenomenon , it is attributed to the latter circumstance , to the entire neglect of the former .
The reverse of this , I believe , would be more correct ; for in cases in which the inflammatory diathesis is best marked , the separation of the red particles from the blood drawn is most rapid , often occurring in one or two minutes ; and , in some diseases , particularly in erysipelas , the blood taken from a vein coagulates as rapidly as healthy blood , and yet exhibits the buffy coat .
In instances of this kind , when I have watched the coagulation of the blood , the red particles have subsided in the short space of two minutes , leaving a supernatant stratum of coagulable lymph , transparent and liquid .
The buffy coat , in these instances , did not appear on the blood collected in the common bleeding cups , only when small vessels , as wine-glasses , or small gallipots were used , and quickly filled , and instantly set aside to rest .
May it not , therefore , be inferred generally , that the buffy coat is principally owing , not to the slow coagulation of the blood on which it appears , but to its increased tenuity ; or , in other words , to the diminished viscidity of coagulable lymph , the effect of morbid vascular action connected with the inflammatory diathesis ?
Mr. HEY has asserted , in opposition to Mr. HEWSON , that the coagulable lymph is not itself attenuated in inflammatory diseases , and that when it appears to be so , it is from dilution with serum.* , Were this opinion correct , such blood should be of low specific gravity , which it is not , as I have satisfied myself by numerous experiments , made both in this country and in Ceylon .
In general , I have found the blood , on which a buffy coat has appeared , of higher specific gravity than healthy blood .
2 .
It is an opinion pretty generally prevalent , that the age of these morbid adhesions , which are so frequently met with in the dissection of bodies , connecting together serous membranes , may be guessed at by their strength : thus , weak adhesions are usually considered of recent origin , and firm adhesions , of long standing .
Is this opinion correct ?
And , does it agree with the properties of coagulable lymph , of which these adhesions are principally formed ?
Many circumstances , of which it will be sufficient to mention a few , lead to a reply in the negative .
Wounds , it is well known , that heal by the first intention , are often firmly united in twenty-four hours .
I have observed strong adhesions formed in the same space of time between the surfaces of the pleura , in consequence of inflammation artificially excited .
An instance may be given .
Oebservations on the Blood , by WILLI-AM HEY , F. R. S. London , 1779 , p. 47-49 .
At Colombo , in the island of Ceylon , in January , i819 , I made the following experiment on a young dog nearly full grown .
An opening was made with a scalpel between the ribs of the right side of the chest , through which about a scruple of arrack was injected into the cavity of the pleura .
The lung was slightly wounded ; air passed freely through the opening , and a little frothy blood was discharged .
The animal , at first , seemed to suffer much pain , and to be very languid ; but , left to itself , it gradually recovered , and in the course of the day took some food .
At the expiration of twenty-four hours it was hot , but apparently not suffering pain ; it was running about , and the wound was closed : It was now killed , and almost immediately examined .
A good deal of vascular coagulated lymph was found under the skin round the wound , connecting the cutis and the intercostal muscles ; the adjoining cellular membrane was inflamed ; some bloody serum was effused into the right cavity of the chest ; many pretty firm and long adhesiom had formed between the pleura pulmonalis and costalis , both which were of a reddish hue ; there were many adhesions too between the pleura and pericardium ; and the pericardiunl was inflamed , and generally adherent to the surface of the heart .
The coagulated lymph of the buffy coat of the blood may be used as an illustration and confirmation of the short time in which strong adhesions may form .
Liquid , when the blood is drawn , coagulable lymph gradually becomes , first viscid , and afterwards solid .
In the viscid state , as I have frequently observed , when it is still transparent , it has the tenacity of mucus , and a Imits of being drawtn out into fibres and bands , which , soon becoming solid and opaque , very well represent the ordinary adhesions of the lungs ; and in a very few hours attain their maximum of strength .
This viscidity , which coagulable lymph acquires in passing from a liquid to a solid form , has not , that I am aware , been noticed by authors ; and the formation of adhesions is usually explained without reference to this quality.* Though I believe the common opinion to be untenable , that the age of adhesions can be decided by their strength , it is far from my intention to maintain that they do not become firmer in progress of time , or that their duration may not occasionally be conjectured from their appearance and resistance .
g. It is believed by many , that the small portions of serous fluid which are found after death in the cavities of serous membranes , especially in the pericardium and the ventricles of the brain , may have been poured out after the cessation of life.tI am not aware that this opinion is other than hypothetical , or that it is supported by any precise facts .
As a theoretical conclusion its correctness seems doubtful .
I have endeavoured to put it to the test of experiment , and the result has not been favourable to it .
I have notes of three different experiments on dogs , which were made in Ceylon in 1818 , all which seem to show that , under ordinary circumstances , no effision of serum , or exudation so as to occasion accumulation , takes place after death .
The experiments were briefly the following .
In each instance , a healthy dog was suddenly killed by a blow on the occiput ; the cavity of the chest was instantly laid open , and the pericardium inspected .
A small quantity of serum was found in it , which was removed with a sponge , and the incisions made were closed by sutures .
At the end of twenty-four hours the sutures were divided , and the pericardium was again examined .
Not a single drop of fluid had collected in it , in any instance , though in two of the trials the right auricle and ventricle were considerably distended with blood .
If these results be conclusive against fluid being effused into the pericardium after death in dogs , the conclusion from them , admits of being extended by analogy to other cavities of the same texture , and to man ; and I am not acquainted with any pathological observations in opposition to it .
The discovery of serous effusions in examinations post mortem , no symptoms of their occurrence or existence having been noticed during life , is surely no evidence of their having taken place after the cessation of vital action .
It is too well known to be insisted on , that large portions of fluid may accumulate in the pericardium , and even in the ventricles of the brain , without a single symptom to indicate the fact .
Fort Pitt , Chatham , March 5 , 182z .

