II .
" On Larixinic Acid , a crystallizable volatile principle found in the Bark of the Larch Tree ( Pinus Larix , Linn. ) .
" By JOHN STENHOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. , F.C.S. Received July 10 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) This acid is prepared by digesting larch-bark in water at 80 ?
C. , evaporating the infusion at the same temperature to the consistence of syrup , and distilling it in vessels of glass , porcelain , or silver ; i. e. of a material not liable to be attacked by the acetic acid present in the infusion .
The larixinic acid distils over , and partly crystallizes on the inner surface of the receiver , but chiefly remains dissolved in the distilled liquid , which , after being concentrated by cautious evaporation , deposits the impure acid in form of crystals .
These are of a brownish-yellow colour ; they are to be dissolved and recrystallized , and may be obtained quite pure by sublimation , which takes place at the low temperature of 93 ?
C. This acid exists as a proximate principle in the larch-bark ; most abundantly in that from trees of not more than 20 or 30 years ' growth , or from the smaller branches of older trees .
When pure , it forms beautifully white crystals , often more than an inch long , of a silvery lustre , and much resembling benzoic acid in aspect .
They sublime at 93 ?
C. and melt at 153 ?
C. ; but in aqueous solution the acid volatilizes at ordinary temperatures .
The crystals belong to the oblique system , and usually occur in twin form .
The measurement of the angles , as determined at the author 's request by Professor W. H. Miller , is given in the Paper .
Larixinic acid , like naphthalin and camphor , emits a sensible smell at ordinary temperatures ; its taste is slightly bitter and astringent .
It very feebly reddens litmus , and a single drop of potash or ammonia suffices to render a large quantity of it alkaline .
It is very soluble in boiling water , but takes 87 or 88 times its weight of water at 60 ?
to dissolve it ; it dissolves also in cold alcohol , but much more largely in hot alcohol , and sparingly in ether .
The crystals are inflammable , and burn with a bright flame , leaving no residue .
Three analyses of the crystals gave the following results : Calculated numbers .
Found .
C 5714 ... .
571 5713 57-06 57-09 Hil = 477 ... ... . .
504 50 09 5-04 010 3809 ... ... . .
37-83 37-85 37-87 The carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen are therefore in the proportions C , , H , O , and the author adopts C0 , , Hl , , O , , as the most probable actual multiples of these numbers .
With ammonia , larixinic acid forms a combination so feeble as to be severed by the mere volatility of the ammonia ; in this respect , as well as in forming no hydrate , resembling pyrogallic and oxyphenic acids .
With potash it forms long flattish crystals of a reddishbrown colour , which deepens on recrystallization .
This combination is decomposed by carbonic acid ; it was not obtained of constant composition .
Larixinic acid gives no precipitate with lime-water or saccharate of lime ; with baryta it forrms a bulky , gelatinous precipitate , like hydrated alumina , easily decomposed by carbonic acid , and found from two experiments to contain 34-92 per cent. of baryta .
Solution of larixinic acid gives no precipitate with basic or neutral acetate of lead , perchloride of platinum ( even with heat ) , nor with nitrate or ammonio-nitrate of silver , although , when boiled with the latter salt , it reduces the silver .
This acid contains no nitrogen ; it does not reduce oxide of copper in Trommer 's test ; it dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid without forming any conjugate combination .
When boiled with a mixture of hydrochloric acid and chlorate of potash it is decomposed , but without giving rise to chloranile ; it gives no coloration when boiled with solution of hypochlorite of lime .
Nitric acid , especially when aided by heat , attacks larixinic acid , leaving oxalic acid as the only fixed product .
When heated with bromine it is destroyed , hydrobromic acid vapours are given off , and an uncrystallizable resin remains .
Salts of copper give to solutions of larixinic acid an emerald-green colour , but cause no precipitate ; chloride of manganese produces neither coloration nor precipitation .
Characteristic effects are produced by salts of iron : perchloride and persulphate give a beautiful purple colour which stands dilution well ; and larixinic acid becomes in this way an excellent reagent for detecting the presence of iron , even in minute quantity .
It does not affect neutral proto-nitrate of mercury in the cold , and on the application of heat no mercury is reduced .
This acid appears to be peculiar to the larch tree ; at least the author has not been able to find any trace of it in the spruce fir ( Abies excelsa ) , or in the Scotch fir ( Pinus sylvestris ) .
It evidently belongs to that small group of substances , of which pyrogallic acid and pyrochatechin , the oxyphenic acid of Gerhardt , are the only other members yet known .
It is much less easily oxidizable than oxyphenic acid , which again is less easily oxidated than pyrogallic acid .
Larixinic acid volatilizes at a much lower temperature than either of these two substances , from which it also differs in being a ready-formed proximate principle , and not an educt .

