VI .
0n a gaseous Cnrpound ofcarbonic Oxide and Chlorine .
By John Davy , Esq. Co mmunicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Knit .
LL. D. Sec. R. S. Read February 6 , 1812 .
SINCE the influence of electricity and solar light , as chemical agents , are analogous in many respects , and as the former produces no change in a mixture of carbonic.oxide and chlorine , it was natural to infer the same respecting the latter .
MM .
M GAY LusSACand VTHENA D assert that this is the case ; they say that they have exposed a mixture of carbonic oxide and chlorine , under all circumscatices , to light , without observing any alteration to take place:* Mr. MURRAY las made a similar statement.t Having been led to repeat tis experimelt , from some objections made by the last mentioned gentleman to the theory of my brother , Sir HuxMPHRY DAVY , concerning chlorine , I was surprised at witnessing a dierent result .
The mrixture exposed , consisted of about equal volumes of chlorine and carbonic oxide the gasses had been previously dried over mercury by the action of fused muriate of lime , and the exhausted glass globe into which they were introduced from a receiver with suitable stopcocks , was carefully dried .
After exposure for about a quarter of an hour to bright sunshine , the colour of the chlorine had entirely disappeared ; the stopcock belonging to the globe , being turned in mercury recently boiled , a considerable absorption took place , just equal to one-half the volume of the mixture , and the residual gas possessed properties perfectly distinct from those belonging either to carbonic oxide or chlorine .
Thrown into the atmosphere , it did .
not fume .
Its odour was different from that of chlorine , something like that which one might imagine would result from the smell of chlorine combined with that of ammonia , yet more intolerable and suffocating than chlorine itself , and affecting the eyes in a peculiar manner , producing a rapid flow of tears and occasioning painful sensations .
Its chemical properties were not less decidedly marked , than its physical ones .
Thrown into a tube full of mercury containing a slip of dry litmus paper , it immediately rendered the paper red .
Mixcd with ammoniacal gas , a rapid condensation took place , a white salt was formed , and much heat was produced .
The compound of this gas and ammonia was a perfect neutral salt , neither changing the colour of turmeric or litmus ; it had no perceptible odour , but a pungent saline taste ; it was deliquescent , and of course very soluble in water ; it was decomposed by the sulphuric , nitric , and phosphoric acids , and also by liquid muriatic acid ; but it sublimed unaltered in the muriatic , carbonic , and sulphureous acid gasses , and dissolvedt without effervescing in acetic acid .
The products of its decomposition collected over mercury were found to be the carbonic and muriatic acid gasses ; and in the experiment with concentrated sulphuric acid when accurate results could be obtained , these two gasses were in such proportions , that the volume of the latter was double that of the former .
I have ascertained by repeated trials , both synthetical and analytical , that the gas condenses four times its volume of the volatile alkali , and I have not been able to combine it with a smaller proportion .
Tin fused in the gas in a bent glass tube over mercury , by means of a spirit lamp , rapidly decomposed it ; the liquor of Libavius was formed ; and when the vessel had cooled , there was not the least change of the volume of the gas perceptible ; but the gas had entirely lost its ofensive odour , and was merely carbonic oxide ; for like carbonic oxide it burnt with a blue flame , afforded carbonic acid by its combustion , and was not absorbable by water .
The effects of zinc , antimony , and arsenic heated in the gas , were similar to those of tin ; compounds of these metals and chlorine were formed , and carbonic oxide in each experiment was liberated equal in volume to the gas decomposed .
In each instance the action of the metal was quick ; the decomposition being completed in less than ten minutes ; but though the action was rapid , it was likewise tranquil , no explosion ever took place , and none of the metals became ignited or inflamed .
The action even of potassium heated in the gas was not violent .
But from the great absorption of gas , and from the precipitation of carbon indicated by the blackness produced , not only the new gas , but likewise the carbonic oxide , appeared to be decomposed .
The white oxide of zinc heated in the gas quickly decomposed it , just as readily indeed as the metal itself ; there was the same formation of the .
butter of zinc ; but instead of carbonic oxide being produced , carbonic acid was formed ; and as usual , there was no change of volume .
The protoxide of antimony fused in the gas rapidly decomposed it ; the butter of antimony and the infusible peroxide were formed ; there was no change of the volume of the gas , and the residual gas was carbonic oxide .
Sulphur and phosphorus sublimed in the gas , produced no apparent change ; the volume of the gas was unaltered , and its characteristic smell was undiminished .
Mixed with hydrogene or oxygene singly , the gas was not inflamed by the electric spark , but mixed with both , in proper proportions , viz. two parts in volume of the former and one of the latter to two parts of the gas , a violent explosion was produced , and the muriatic and carbonic acid gasses were formed .
The gas transferred to water was quickly decomposed , the carbonic and muriatic acids were formed , as in the last experiment , and the effect was the same even when light was excluded .
From the mode of the formation of the gas and the condensation that takes place at the time , from the results of the decomposition of its ammoniacal salt , and from the analysis of the gas by metals and metallic oxides , it appears to be a compound of carbonic oxide and chlorine condensed into half the space which they occupied separately .
And from its combining with ammonia , and forming with this alkali a neutral salt , and from its reddening litmus , it seems to be an acid .
It is similar to acids in other respects ; in decomposing the dry sub-carbonate of ammonia , one part in volume of it , expelling two parts of carbonic acid gas ; and in being itself not expelled from ammonia by any of the acid gasses , or by acetic acid , Independent of these circumstances , were power of saturation to be taken as the measure of affinity , the attraction of this gas for armmonia must be allowed to be greater than that of any other substance , for its saturating power is greater ; no acid condenses so large a proportion of ammonia ; carbonic acid only condenses half as much , and yet does not form a neutral salt .
The great saturating and neutralizing powers of this gas are singular circumstances , and particularly singular when compared with those of muariatic acid gas .
In consequence of its being decomposed by water , I have@ not been able to ascertain whether it is capable of combining : with the fixed alkalies .
Added to solutions of these substances it was absorbed , and carbonic acid gas was disengaged by an acid .
I have made the experiment on the native carbonates of lime and barytes , but the gas did not decompose these bodies .
This indeed might be expected , since quick-lime , I find , does not absorb the gas .
a cubic inch of it , exposed to the action of lime in a tube over mercury , was only diminished in two days to nine-tenths of a cubic inch , and no further absorption was afterwards observed to take place .
But even this circumstance does not demonstrate that the gas has no affinity for lime , and is not capable of combining with it ; for on making a similar experiment with carbonic acid , substituting this gas for the new compound , the result was the same ; in two days only about one-tenth of a cubic inch was absorbed .
Though the gas is decomposed by water , yet it appears to I48 be absorbed unaltered by common spirits of wine , which contains so considerable a quantity of water ; it imparted its peculiar odour to the spirit , and its property of affecting the eyes ; five measures of the spirit condensed sixty measures of the gas .
It is also absorbed by the fuming liquor of arsenic , and by the oxymuriate of sulphur .
The former appeared to require for saturation ten times its own volue ; six measures of the liquor condensed about sixty of the gas .
The liquor thus impregnated was thrown into water , and a pretty appearance was produced by the sudden escape of bubbles of the gas ; had not its intolerable smell convinced me that the gas was unaltered , I should not have conceived that it could pass through water undecomposed .
I cannot account for the assertion of MM .
M. GAY LussAc and THENARD and of Mr. MURRAY , that oxymuriatic gas does not , when under the influence of light , exert any action on carbonic oxide : I was inclined at first to suppose that the difference between their results and mine , might be owing to their not having exposed the gasses together to bright sunshine ; but I have been obliged to relinquish this idea , since I have found that bright sun-shine is not essential , and that the combination is produced in less than twelve hours by the indirect solar rays , light alone being necessary .
The formation of the new gas may be very readily witnessed , by making a mixture of dry carbonic oxide and chlorine in a glass tube over mercury : if light be excluded , the chlorine will be absorbed by the mercury , the carbonic oxide alone remaining ; but if bright sun-shine be immediately adnitted when the mixture is first made , a rapid ascension of 149 the mercury will take place , and in less than a minute the colour of the chlorine will be destroyed , and in about ten minutes the condensation will have ceased , and the combination of the two gasses will be complete .
It is requisite that the gasses should be dried for forming this compound ; if this precaution is neglected , the new gas will be far from pure ; it will contain a considerable admixture of the carbonic and muriatic acid gasses , which are produced in consequence of the decomposition of hygrometrical water .
Indeed there is considerable difficulty in ' procuring the new gas tolerably pure ; a good air pump is required , and perfectly tight stop-cocks , and dry gasses , and dry vessels .
I have endeavoured to procure the gas , by passing a mixture of carbonic oxide and chlorine through an earthen-ware tube heated to redness ; but without success .
The specific gravity of the gas may be inferred from the specific gravities of its constituent parts jointly with the condensation that takes place at their union .
According to CRUICKSHANK , 100 cubic inches of carbonic oxide weigh 29,6 grains , and according to Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , 100 of chlorine are equal to 76,37 grains : hence as equal volumes of these gasses combine , and become so condensed as to occupy only half the space they before filled , it follows that 1oo cubic inches of the new compound gas are equal to 105,97 grains .
Thus this gas exceeds most others as much in its density as it does in its saturating power .
To ascertain whether chlorine has a stronger affinity for hydrogene than for carbonic oxide , I exposed a mixture of the three gasses in equal volumes to light .
Both the new compound and muriatic acid gas were formed , and the affinities were so nicely balanced , that the chlorine was nearly equally divided between them .
And that the attraction of chlorine for both these gasses is nearly the same , appears to be confirmed by muriatic acid not being decomposed by carbonic oxide , or the new gas by hydrogene .
The chlorine and carbonic oxide are , it is evident from these last facts , united by strong attractions ; and as the properties of the substance as a peculiar compound are well characterized , it will be necessary to designate it by some simple name .
I venture to propose that of phosgene , or phosgene gas ; from ( &lt; p , light , and Yivogtae , to produce , which signifies formed by light ; and as yet no other mode of producing it has been discovered .
I have exposed mixtures consisting of different proportions of chlorine and carbonic acid to light , but have obtained no new compound .
The proportions in which bodies combine appear to be determined by fixed laws , which are exemplified in a variety of instances , and particularly in the present compound .
Oxygene combines with twice its volume of hydrogene and twice its volume of carbonic oxide to form water and carbonic acid , and with half its volume of chlorine to form euchlorine ; and chlorine reciprocally requires its own volume of hydrogene and its own volume of carbonic oxide to form muriatic acid .
and the new gas .
This relation of proportions is one of the most beautiful parts of chemical philosophy , and that which promises fairest , when prosecuted , of raising chemistry to the state and cer .
tainty of a mathematical science. .

