II .
" Notice of the Surface of the Sun .
" By JOHN PHILLIPS , M.A. LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received October 27th , 1865 .
It appears desirable , as a first step to a right theory of the condition of the sun 's surface , that the appearances which it presents should be recorded in some systematic way .
Photographs will suffice for the distribution of the spots , but careful eye-drawings must be appealed to in evidence of the form , arrangement , and intestine motions of the parts of those spots , and eye-drawings with measures are the only means of recording accurately the dotted , areolar , granular , crested , and other arrangements 476 [ Nov. 23 , which under the general title of " porosity " have been recognized over the whole face of the sun .
Descriptions cannot be complete , but , what is more , they may be , and probably often are , misleading-words which call up right ideas of things often fail very much when required to perform the same function for new objects not well understood .
With this conviction in my mind , I have requested the Royal Society to accept a few drawings representing features on the sun 's face as they appear to me looking through a telescope of known dimensions , and used in a certain way .
If observers would send sketches made at the telescope , showing what they see , or think they see , -not finished paintings to illustrate hypothetical ideas , -these sketches , by gradual accumulation and comparison , would at last furnish evidence by which even a great theory might be brought to a satisfactory test .
Therefore it is that I presume to offer to the Royal Society some additional sketches of the " porosity " of the sun , as seen in good observing weather in this month of October* .
The whole surface of the sun , as seen on the 24th and 25th , appeared quite free from any dark patches large enough to be called spots-offering in this respect a singular contrast with its aspect on the 17th , when the large doubly nucleated spot , of which I sent a sketch a few days since , was so conspicuous near the ( apparent ) right edget .
On this apparently even and marble-like surface , a power of 50 , with the full aperture of 6 inches , made manifest the existence of the porosity at every point , from the centre to near the edge , the distinctness being greatest over all the middle part of the area .
By applying successively powers of 75 , 100 , 135 , and 180 , it was easy to observe the general effect , and the particular features of diversity .
The clock-rate being regulated exactly , any particular part of the disk might be kept continually under view ; and to increase the distinctness of the object , or rather the comfort of the observer in looking at it , the field was contracted by diaphragms to one-half or one-third of the usual diameter .
The great obstacle to a strict observation of any small selected part of the sun 's disk is unsteadiness of the head , a circumstance troublesome to portrait-photographers , but more injurious to astronomers .
I believe this kind of error to be one of the elements of personal equation , and that it can sometimes only be cured by allowing the observer to take hold of the moving telescope .
This , thanks to Mr. Cooke 's solid construction , can be safely done .
The sketches now presented relate only to the appearances presented to one observer , with the precautions stated ; to what degree they are affected by " personal equation " remains to be proved by comparison with others , and I hope better drawings .
P1 .
XII .
fig. 1 represents a part of the surface under a low power ( 75 ) , which is carefully moved out of focus inwards and outwards .
Under these conditions , the soft undefined mottling which it shows catches the eye , and appears clearly to be caused by parts not differing in structure from the more shadowy spaces between them , except by there being less effect of shadow points and lines on the parts which are relatively lighter .
Here and there apparently dark specks appear , either in the darker tracts or on the lighter parts ; and there are specks of all degrees of darkness , as well as lines of greater or less distinctness .
P1 .
XII .
fig. 2 is offered as a careful attempt to copy a definite tract , still employing a low power ( 75 ) , and using every means to get the focus exactly .
When this is accomplished , and the eye placed as close as possible to the eyepiece , the appearances can be sketched as well as an artist can picture a tree with its leaves , a heap of broken stones , or some dissected and areolated clouds .
They can be sketched , but certainly not well or truly , without patient attention , and eyes and head in a good state .
Here the texture appears to be areolar , with much irregularity in the shapes , but no great inequality of size .
Dots of extremely small dimensions , sometimes quite black , appear singly or in pairs in the centres of several areolwe .
PI .
XII .
fig. 3 .
Another sketch , under the same conditions , but employing powers of 135 and ( rarely ) 180 .
In this part of the disk dots , occasionally running together into a complicated short tract , may be seen , not specially conformed to the areolar structure , but in some places crossing it , and elsewhere scattered about it .
The number of short irregular discontinuous lines which occur mixed with dots is very great ; none of them appear to be regularly curved or regularly straight , but seem to be intervals merely between more enlightened parts .
It does not seem to me that dots of greater darkness usually appear at the intersections or terminations of these fissure-like objects .
P1 .
XII .
fig. 4 , is intended to convey the impression arising from a close study of one small space quite definite in character and marked by distinct small dots , one elongated in the middle part of a subpentagonal space , around which other less regular areolae were gathered .
After much attention , it appeared to me that the boundaries of this rude pentagon were in part broken up into irregular short loops and dots ; and though the observation was difficult , I am not afraid to trust it .
This selected space is drawn on a larger scale , but it was not seen with higher powers than No. 3 .
P1 .
XII .
fig. 5 shows a curious areola with a black central dot , and three parallel markings on the boundary .
P1 .
XII .
fig. 6 , a sketch made in April 1864 , is introduced for comparison , and especially for the softly luminous mottling of the surface .
I shall be very glad to be informed whether what is here said agrees or not with the observations of other persons , made with other instruments .
478 [ Nov. 23 , Supplementary Note , Nov. 25 , 1865 .
The spot to which the above notices refer has been made the subject of careful observations by M. Chacornac , who has issued interesting descriptions and drawings of it from October 7 to October 16 .
The Rev. Mr. Howlett has also scrutinized the same object , and prepared drawings to October 17 , the day when my first sketch was made .
Thus we have for this spot observations through one rotation and a half , and we may perhaps have the pleasure of welcoming it again in a new form.-J .
P. III .
" Notice of a Spot on the Sun , observed at intervals during one Rotation .
" By JOHN PHILLIPS , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
With Drawings .
Received November 15 , 1865 .
On the 17th of October , 1865 , at 2 P.M. the spot referred to had traversed a great portion of its arc , and was approaching the limb .
It showed two large unequal umbrm , and in each of them a blacker nucleus .
Between them were several small dark dots , partially coalescent .
The edges of the umbrae were very irregular .
In the smaller umbra two bright dots .
Above the larger umbra ( which appeared to the right in the telescope ) was an exceptionally bright band , traversed by two dark threads ending in dark dots .
This band crossed a part of the umbra , like a bridge , but itself was there traversed by a small bar .
Four bright patches lay in the continuation of this facula toward the prolonged upper ( apparently ) extremity of the penumbra , which was itself more luminous than other penumbral parts .
The penumbra had broken edges , and an interior mottling of small brighter and darker spaces directed variously toward the umbrae .
The granulated surface of the sun with soft gleaming facular ridges was conspicuously seen , and tracts of darkly dotted surface were seen beyond each extremity and on one side ( P1 .
X. fig. 1 ) .
Nov. 4 , 9.45.-The spot had now returned by rotation , and was very distinctly seen amidst far extended clouds of bright faculse , though reduced to less than half its former dimensions .
It retained the two umbral tracts ; but it was now the left-hand tract which was the larger .
Being about 15 ?
from the limb , the general figure was oval , as usual ; the umbrae were of irregular figure , the larger one cut into by bright branches from the interumbral space .
Dark dots amidst the faculve on the border ( P1 .
X. fig. 2 ) .
Nov. 6 , 9.45.-The spot had reached about 45 ?
from the edge , and appeared less elliptical , and otherwise changed in aspect .
The large umbra was much dissected by bright streams , and the smaller one had assumed a distinctly tripartite shape .
The edges of the penumbra appeared rugged .
Many small spots and dark dots towards the edge of the disk ( P1 .
X. fig. 3 ) Nov. 11 , 9.45.-The spot had now passed the central meridian , and was greatly altered , and almost cut into two parts by a bright facular mass , passing between the umbrae .
The larger of these is now in a pentagonal 479

