January 6 , 1853 .
WILLIAM HOPKINS , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " On Molecular Influences .
Sect. 1 .
Transmission of Heat through Organic Structures .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received Oct. 20 , 1852 .
In this paper the author has examined the influence exerted by the molecular structure of wood upon the passage of heat through the substance .
Finding the usual modes of determining the conductivity of bodies inadequate to his purpose , he has been led to the construction of a new instrument which is capable of indicating very slight differences of transmissive power .
A cubical space is cut out of the centre of a rectangular slab of mahogany .
The same slab holds a thermo-electric pair of bismuth and antimony , which are fixed in trenches cut out to receive them .
The junction of the pair ( which is of a V-shape ) abuts upon one of the faces of the cubical space just mentioned ; the end of a wooden slider forms the opposite boundary of the cubical space , and against this end a platinum wire , bent several times up and down so as to form a kind of micrometer-grating , is laid and imbedded in the wood .
A small projection of ivory abuts at each side of the bismuth and antimony junction , and from one projection to the other a thin membrane is drawn , thus enclosing a space in front of the junction , which is filled with mercury .
Two similar projections jut at the sides of the micrometer-grating , and across from one projection to the other , a second membrane is stretched , thus enclosing another chamber in front of the wire .
This chamber is also filled with mercury , and against the wire a thin plate of mica is cemented , thus preventing all contact between the two metals .
From the free ends of the bismuth and antimony bars wires proceed to a delicate galvanometer .
The substances to be examined by this instrument are reduced to the cubical form and placed between the two membranes ; the slider being brought closely up against the cube , the latter is clasped firmly between the rigid projections before-named .
The membranes are pressed gently against the two opposite faces of the cube by the mercury behind , and thus a contact is secured which , as the mercury is not changed during an entire series of experiments , remains perfectly constant .
This is a most important point in experiments of this nature , for when the conditions of contact vary in even a slight degree , comparable results are out of the question .
This remark of course applies exclusively to an inquiry like the present , where the object is to detect minute differences of molecular action .
The protruding ends of the micrometer-wire are united to the poles of a small galvanic battery , and the wire is heated by the passage of the current ; the heat is transmitted through the film of mica to the mass of mercury in front , which thus becomes the source of heat immediately applied to the face of the cube .
The current is permitted to circulate through the bent wire for 60 seconds .
During this time the heat passes from the face of the cube in contact with the source to the opposite face ; the quantity transmitted to the opposite face at the end of a minute , will of course depend on the conductivity of the body in the given direction .
This quantity is measured by its effect upon the galvanometer .
The temperature of the source will , of course , depend upon the amount of electricity transmitted through the bent wire , and to preserve this amount perfectly constant from day to day , a tangent galvanometer and rheostat are introduced into the voltaic circuit ; a current which produces the invariable deflection of 35 ?
is made use of to heat the wire .
By this arrangement experiments which are separated from each other by long intervals of time are rendered strictly comparable .
In the manner above indicated , the author has submitted fiftyfour different kinds of wood , both English and foreign , to examination .
The cubes were taken so that four faces of each were parallel to the fibre , and the remaining two consequently perpendicular to it .
Of the four parallel to the fibre , two opposite ones were parallel to the ligneous layers , and the other two perpendicular to them .
The amount of heat transmitted in 60 seconds across the mass of each cube in these three directions , respectively , was determined in the way described , and the following law of action established : At all points except the centre of the tree , wood possesses three unequal axes of calorific conduction which are at right angles to each other .
The first and greatest axis is parallel to the fibre ; the second axis is perpendicular to the fibre , and to the annual layers of the wood ; while the third and least axis is perpendicular to the fibres and parallel to the layers .
It is observed that these axes of calorific conduction coincide in order of magnitude and in direction with the axes of elasticity discovered by Savart .
The author furthermore points out the existence of two other systems of axes in wood , the axes of cohesion and the axes of fluid permeability , both of which coincide with the axes of calorific conduction .
Experiments have been made on the conductivity of various other bodies , and the non-conducting powers of the substances which enter into the composition of organic tissues is strikingly exhibited .
From comparative experiments with quartz and some other substances , the author points out the influence which a mass of silica exposed to the sun 's rays , as in the African deserts , must exert upon climate .
The paper concludes with experiments on some other organic structures : Tooth of Walrus , Tooth of Elephant , Whalebone , Rhinoceros's-horn , Cow's-horn ; and which show how small is their transmissive power : that of sealing-wax , bees'-wax , sole-leather , glue , gutta-percha , India-rubber , filbert-kernel , almond-kernel , boiled hammuscle , raw veal-muscle , appears to be unappreciable by the method described .

