XX .
Account of the Free Martin .
By Mr. John Hunter , F. R. S. Read February 25 , 1779 .
GENERATION , when produced from a seed , has two causes which concur towards its perfection ; the one which forms the seed , the other which gives it the principle of action ( a ) .
The cause which forms the seed is called the female , the other cause is called the male ; but those two causes in general make only a part of a whole animal , or are ( a ) It may be necessary for some of my readers to have explained to them what I mean by a seed .
I do suppose , that the word seed was first applied to grain , or that which is always called seed in the vegetable ; which seed is the part of that class of vegetables in which the matter of the young vegetable exists , or is formed .
The principle of arrangement fitting the parts for action in this class of seed being at first not known , a false analogy between the vegetable and animal was established , viz. the secretion of the testes ( the only known principle in the animal ) was called the seed : but from the knowledge of the distinct sexes in the vegetable it is well known , that the seed is the female production in them , and that the principle of arrangement for action is from the male .
The same operation and principles take place in many orders of animals , vix .
the female produces a seed , in which is the matter fitted for the first arrangement of the organs of the animal , and which receives the principle of arrangement fitting them for action from the male .
rather parts superadded to an animal .
Probably they were first considered in those animals where those parts were separated , or in which the female parts were wholly found in one animal and the male in the other ; therefore the terms female and male have been applied to the whole animal , dividing them into two distinct sexes , and the parts which formed either the one sex or the other called either the female or the male parts of generation ; but upon a further knowledge of animals , and of those parts , they were found to be united in the same animal in many of the inferior tribes , who , from possessing both parts , have got the name of hermaphrodite .
As both those parts are natural to most animals , and as the union of them in the same animal is also natural to many , and the separation of them in distinct animals , is only a circumstance making no essential difference in the parts themselves ; it becomes no great effort or uncommon play in nature to unite them in those animals in which they are commonly separated .
And accordingly we find many of those orders of animals , which have them separate naturally , have them sometimes united .
From this account hermaphrodites may be divided into two kinds ; the natural , and the unnatural uncommon or monstrous .
The natural belongs to the inferior and more simple order of animals , of which there are a much greater number than of the more perfect ; but as animals become more complicated , have more parts , and each part is more confined to its particular use , a separation of the two necessary powers for generation have also taken place in them .
The unnatural , I believe , now and then takes place in every tribe of animals having distinct sexes , but is more common in some than in others ( b ) .
I fancy the human has the fewest , never having seen them in that species nor in dogs : cats we know less of ; but in the horse , ass , sheep , and cattle , they are very frequent .
Though this species of hermaphrodite be a mixture of both sexes , and so possesses the parts peculiar to each in perfection , there is yet one part of each which it does not possess : I mean the part which is common to both .
For as this common part is different in one sex from what it is in the other , and it is impossible for one animal to have both kinds ; that which they do have must of course partake of both sexes , and consequently render the hermaphrodite imperfect quoad hoc .
( b ) Quere , Is there ever in the tribe of animals , that are natural hermaphrodites , a separation of the two parts ?
This one or common part is the clytoris in the female , and penis in the male ; and the great difference in this part between the one sex and the other is size and perforation for the semen .
But those parts , which are peculiar to each sex , may be all perfectly joined in the same animal , which would come up to the idea of the truest hermaphrodite .
The hermaphrodites of this kind , which I have seen , have always appeared externally , and , at first view , to be females : and in those species of animals where only the female is preserved for breeding , as in sheep , goats , pigs , &amp;c. they are generally saved as females .
In the horse they are very frequent : I have seen several , but never dissected any .
The most perfect I have seen in this species were those in which the testicles had come down out of the abdomen into the place where the udder should have been ( viz. more forward than the scrotum ) and appeared like an udder , not so pendulous as what the scrotum is in the true male of such animals .
There were also two nipples , which horses have no perfect form of , being blended in them with the sheath or prepuce , of which there was none here .
The external female parts were exactly similar to those of the perfect female ; and , instead of a commonsized sized clytoris , there was one about five or six inches long , which , when erect , stood almost directly backwards .
I procured a foal ass , very similar in external appearance to the above horse , and killed it , to examine the parts .
It had two nipples , but the testicles were not come down as in the above ; owing , perhaps , to the animal 's being yet too young .
There was no penis passing round the pubis to the belly as in the perfect male ass .
The external female parts were similar to those of the she-ass .
Within the entrance of the vagina was placed the clytoris , but much longer than that of a true female , being about five inches long .
The vagina was open a little further than the opening of the urethra into it , and then became obliterated ; from thence up to the fundus of the uterus there was no canal .
At the fundus of the common uterus it was hollow , or had a cavity in it , and then divided into two , viz. a right and a left , called the horns of the uterus , which were also pervious .
Beyond the termination of the two horns were placed the ovaria as in the true female , but I could not find the fallopian tubes .
From the broad ligaments to the edges of which the ~orns of the uterus and the ovaria were attached , there passed towards each groin a part similar to the round ligaments in the female , which were continued into the rings of the abdominal muscles ; but with this difference , that there were continued with them a process or theca of the peritoneum , similar to the tunica vaginalis communis in the male ass , and in these thecae were found the testicles : but I could not observe any vasa deferentia passing from them .
Here then we found in the same animal the parts peculiar to each sex ( although very imperfect ) , and that part which is common to both ( but different in each ) was a kind of medium of that difference .
Something similar to the above I have seen in sheep , goats , &amp;c. ; but I shall not at present trouble the Society with a description of hermaphrodites in general , as it is a very extensive subject , admitting of great variety , which would make it appear a production of chance , whereas the intention of this paper is to show a circumstance which takes place in the production of hermaphrodites in cattle , and which appearing to be an established principle in the oeconomy of propagation of that species of animal , and not a production of chance , is , perhaps , peculiar to them , and , probably , the only way in which they are ever produced in this species .
It is a known fact , and , I believe , is understood to be universal , that when a cow brings forth two calves , and that one of them is a bull-calf , and the other a cow to appearance , the cow-calf is unfit for propagation ; but the bull-calf becomes a very proper bull .
They are known not to breed : they do not even show the least inclination for the bull , nor does the bull ever take the least notice of them ( c ) .
This cow-calf is called in this country a free martin ; and this singularity is just as well known among the farmers as either cow or bull .
This calf has all the external marks of a cow-calf similar to what was mentioned in the unnatural hermaphrodite , viz. the teats and the external female parts , called by farmers the bearing .
When they are preserved it is not for propagation , but for all the purposes of an ox or spayed heifer , viz. to yoke with the oxen , and to fatten for the table ( d ) .
They resemble in form those imperfect animals very much , viz. they are much larger than either the bull or the cow , and the horns grow larger , being very similar to the horns of an ox .
( c ) I need hardly observe here , that if a cow has twins , and that they are both bull-calves , that they are in every respect perfect bulls ; or if they are both cow-calves , that they are perfect cows .
( d ) Vide LESLIE on Husbandry , p. 98 , 99 .
The bellow of the free martin is similar to that of an ox , which is not at all like that of a bull ; it is more of the cow , although not exactly that .
The meat is also similar to that of the ox or spayed heiser , viz. much finer in the fibre than either the bull or cow ; and they are more susceptible of growing fat with good food .
By some they are supposed to exceed the ox and heifer in delicacy of food , and bear a higher price at market .
However , it seems that this is not universal ; for I was lately informed by CHARLES PALMER , esq .
of Luckley in Berkshire , that there was a free martin killed in his neighbourhood , and , from the general idea of its being better meat than common , every neighbour bespoke a piece , which turned out nearly as bad as bull beef , at least worse than that of a cow .
It is probable , that this might arise from this one having more the properties of the bull than the cow , as we shall see hereafter that they are sometimes more the one than the other ( e ) .
Free ( e ) The Romans called the bull taurus : they , however , talked of taurae in the feminine gender .
And STEPHENS observes , that it was thought the Romans meant by taurae , barren cows , and called them by this name because they did not conceive any more than bulls .
He also quotes a passage from COLUMELLA , lib. vi .
cap. 22 .
` ` and like the taurae , which occupy the place of Free martins are said to be in sheep ( f ) ; but from the accounts given of them , I should very much suspect that these are hermaphrodites produced in the common way , and not like those of cattle .
They are often imperfect males , several of which I have seen .
They are mentioned as both male and female , which is not reconcileable to the account given of the free martin .
I believe it has never been even supposed what this animal is , with all those peculiarities .
From the singularity of the animal , and the account of its production , I was almost ready to suppose the account a vulgar error ; yet from the universality of its testimony it appeared to have some foundation ; and therefore I made all the inquiry I could for an opportunity of seeing one , and also to examine it .
Since which time I have accordingly had an opportunity of seeing three ; the first of which was one belonging to JOHN ARBUTHNOT , esq .
of Mitcham , which was calved in his own farm .
He was so obliging as to give me an opportunity of satisfying myself .
He allowed me , first , to have a drawing made of the animal while alive , which was exefertile cows , should be rejected , or sent away .
' ' He likewise quotes VARRO , De re Rustica , lib. ii .
cap. 5 .
` ` The cow which is barren , is called taura .
' ' From which we may reasonably conjecture , that the Romans had not the idea of the circumstances of their production .
( f ) LESLIE'S Husbandry , p. 156 .
cuted by Mr. GILPIN .
When the drawing was made of Mr. ARBUTHNOT'S free martin , JOHN WELLS , esq .
of Bickley Farm , near Bromley in Kent , was present , and informed us , that a cow of his had calved two calves ; and that one was a bull-calf , and the other a cow-calf .
I desired Mr. ARBUTHNOT to speak to Mr. WELLS to keep them , or let me buy them of him ; but , from his great desire for natural knowledge , he very readily preserved both , till the bull showed all the signs of a good bull , when he sold him .
From the dissection of the three above mentioned free martins it plainly appeared , that they were all hermaphrodites differing from one another ; as is also the case in hermaphrodites in other tribes .
The Description of the three Free Martins .
Mr. ARBUTHNOT'S Free Martin ( g ) .
The external parts were rather smaller than in the cow .
The vagina passed on , as in the cow , to the opening of the urethra , and then it began to contract into a small canal , which passed on to the division of the uterus into the two horns , each horn passed along the edge of the broad ligament laterally towards the ovaria .
At the termination of those horns were placed both the ovaria and the testicles ; both were nearly of the same size , which was about as large as a small nutmeg .
To the ovaria I could not find any Fallopian tube .
To the testicles were vasa deferentia , but they were imperfect .
The left one did not come near the testicle ; the right only came close to it , but did not terminate in a body called the epididymis .
They were both pervious , and opened into the vagina near the opening of the urethra .
( g ) This animal was about seven years old , had been often yoked with the oxen ; at other times went with the cows and bull , but never showed any desires for either the one or the other .
On the posterior surface of the bladder , or between the uterus and bladder , were the two bags , called vesiculae seminales in the male , but much smaller than what they are in the bull : the ducts opened along with the vasa deferentia .
This was more deserving the name of hermaphrodite than the two following ; for it had a mixture of all the parts , although all were imperfect .
Mr. WRIGHT'S Free Martin , five years old .
The vagina terminated in a blind end , a little way beyond the opening of the urethra , beyond which the vagina and uterus were impervious .
The uterus at its extreme part divided into two horns .
At the termination of the horns were placed the testicles instead of the ovaria , as is the case in the female .
The reasons why I call those bodies testicles are the following .
First , they were more than twenty times larger than the ovaria of the cow , and nearly as large as the testicles of the bull , particularly as those of the ridgill , the bull whose testicles never come down .
Secondly the spermatic arteries were exactly similar to those of the bull , especially of the ridgill .
Thirdly , the cremaster muscle passed up from the rings of the abdominal muscles to the testicles , as it does in the ridgill(h ) .
There were the two bags placed behind the bladder , between it and the uterus .
Their ducts opened into the vagina , a very little way beyond the opening of the urethra ; but there was nothing similar to the vasa deferentia .
As the external parts had more of the cow than the bull , the clytoris , which may also be reckoned an external part , was also similar to that of the cow ; not at all in a middle state between the penis of the bull and the clytoris of the cow , as I have described in the hermaphrodite horse .
There were four teats ; the glandular part of the udder was but small .
This animal cannot be said to have been a mixture of all the parts of both sexes , for the clytoris had nothing similar to the penis in the male , and was different in the cow part , in having nothing similar to the ovaria , nor was the uterus a cavity .
( h ) Although I call these bodies testicles for the reason given , yet they were only imitations of such , for when cut into they had nothing of the structure of the testicle : not being similar to any thing in nature , they had more the appearance of disease .
From the seeming imperfection of the animal itself , it was not to be supposed that they should be testicles , for then the animal should have partook of the bull , which it certainly did not .
Mr. WELLS'S Free Martin .
This animal was never seen to show any signs of a desire for the male , although it went constantly with one .
It looked more like an heifer than what they commonly do ; but as it was only between three and four years old when killed , it is very probable , that it was not sufficiently old to have taken the characters of the ox ; however , this may be owing to another circumstance that will be mentioned hereafter .
The teats and udder were small compared with those of a heifer , but rather larger than in either of the former ; the beginning of the vagina similar to that of the cow , but it soon became obliterated beyond the opening of the urethra , as in the last described .
The vagina and uterus to external appearance was continued , although not pervious , and the uterine part divided into two horns , at the end of which were the ovaria .
I could not observe in this any other body which I might have supposed to be the testicle .
There was on the side of the uterus an interrupted vas deferens broken off in several places .
Behind the bladder , or between it and the vagina , were the bags called vesiculae seminales , between which were the terminations of the two vasa deferentia .
The ducts of the bags and the vasa deferentia opened as in the former .
This could not be called an exact mixture of all the parts of both sexes , for here was no appearance of testicles .
The female parts were imperfect , and there was the addition of part of the vasa deferentia , and the bags called vesiculae seminales .
This circumstance of having no testicles , perhaps , was the reason why it had more the external appearance of a heifer than what they commonly have , and more than either of the two former had .

