On Larixinic Acid , a crystallizable volatile principle found in the Bark of he Larch Tree ( Pinus Larix , Linn. ) .
By Dr. JOHN STENHOIUE , F.R.S. Received July 10 , -Read November 21 , 1861 .
THE most convenient way of preparing this somewhat singular substance consists in cutting the bark of the larch into small pieces , and then digesting it in water for twentyfour hours at a temperature of about 80 ?
Cent. The solution , which has a deep reddishbrown colour , is then poured off on to a second portion of larch bark and digested as before .
The concentrated infusion is then cautiously heated in an open porcelain dish , at the temperature of about 80 ?
Cent. , till it is converted into a syrup .
A portion of this syrup is then distilled , either in glass or porcelain retorts , or , what is better than either , in a silver alembic .
Iron retorts cannot be employed for this purpose , as the acetic acid which is always produced during distillation , by forming acetate of iron , instantly destroys the larixinic acid , by changing it into a -deep-purple-coloured liquid .
When a silver alembic cannot be procured , a very convenient way of distilling the extract of the larch is to ' pour it into a large Florence flask , the neck of which is passed obliquely through a cork or bung , which is inserted into a glass condenser .
When the flask is cautiously heated on a sand-bath , the larixinic acid comes over with the first portions of the liquid , but becomes more abundant as the distillationproceeds , and usually forms large flat crystals which condense on the sides and neck of .
the receiver .
The liquid which is distilled over , and which contains the greater portion of the larixinic acid , should be poured into small flat basins , and cautiously vconcentrated at about 60 ?
Cent. When the greater portion of the water has been dissipated , it is advisable , especially in warm weather , to complete the operation by spontaneous evaporation ; for unless the concentration of the aqueoussolution of larixinic acid is conducted cautiously , the larixinic acid volatilizes along with the vapour of water , and is thereby lost .
The highly concentrated solution of larixinic acid obtained in the way just described , on standing , deposits brownish-yellow crystals , which are impure larixinic acid .
This is to ibe pressed between folds of blotting-paper , and again to be crystallized out of a small iquantity of water .
The larixinic acid may be rendered perfectly pure by subliming it , once or'twice .
This is easily effected by placing the larixinic acid between two watchglasses , or in any other suitable apparatus , and heating it cautiously on a sand-bath , or even on a water-bath , as the larixinic acid sublimes at the very low temperature of 93 ?
Cent. The larixinic acid is a proximate principle , which exists ready formed in the larch .
This is easily proved by distilling even a dilute infusion of the bark , when the liquid which passes over will be found to strike a deep purple colour with a persalt of iron , which is very persistent .
The bark of old larch trees contains very little larixinic acid ; but the bark of the small branches , and that of the stems of the larch when not more than from twenty to thirty years of age , contains very considerable quantities of this substance , the concentrated syrup from the portions of bark yielding more larixinic acid than an equal weight of catechu does of oxyphenic acid .
Larixinic acid , after it has been purified by sublimation , forms beautifully white crystals , often more than an inch in length , of a brilliant silvery lustre , very much resembling benzoic acid in appearance .
They sublime at 93 ?
Cent. , and melt at 153 ?
Cent. ; but its aqueous solutions volatilize at ordinary temperatures .
I am indebted to the kindness of Professor W. H. MILLER , of Cambridge , for the subjoined measurements of the crystals of larixinic acid .
' The crystals obtained by sublimation become rough so rapidly when exposed to the air , that very little confidence can be placed in the folFi .
1 .
lowing results:"The crystals belong to the oblique system ; they usually occur in twins , like the annexed figure .
They are extremely thin in a direction perpendicular to b. Denoting by , m , n faces in the zone a b , and by rata face in the zone b c , it appears that tan b l , tan b n , tan bn are nearly ?
as the numbers 2 , 3 , 6 , and that ab=90 ?
0 , b c=90 ?
0 ' , ac=760 0 ' , 6 1= 49 ?
29 , b m=60 ?
20 ' , bn=74 ? ?
6 ' , 6r=75 ? ?
30 ' .
Cleavage a distinct , ' " --c imperfect .
" The crystals of larixinic acid crystallized out of water are very imperfect ; the angles must be regarded as very rough approximations .
They are deduced , as well as I could deduce them , from a mean of a considerable number of observations by no means agreeing well with each other .
The angle between the normals to two faces is taken as the measure of the angle between the faces .
" Oblique:100 , 101 26 ? ?
22 ' 010 , 111 74 ? ?
36 ' ; 001 , 101 = 44 ? ?
20 ' .
Fig.2 .
" Forms observed:-010 , 001 , 110 , 011 , 023\~ Angles .
oI 110 , 001 = 71 58 .
o,1 010 , 110 = 69 35 010 , 011 = 59 37 010 , 023 = 68 39 010 , 001 = 90 0 " Cleavage 001 distinct , and very easily obtained .
" The smell of the aqueous solution of larixinic acid is sweetish , like that of a syrup , but the smell of the sublimed acid is very peculiar and slightly empyreumatic .
As larixinic acid emits a sensible odour at ordinary temperatures , in this respect it considerably resembles naphthaline and ordinary camphor .
The taste of larixinic acid is slightly bitter and astringent .
It reddens litmus paper very slightly , but a single drop of potash or ammonia , when added to a solution of a large quantity of larisinic acid , renders it alkaline .
Larixinic acid is very soluble in boiling water , but is by no means very soluble in cold water , 87*88 parts of water at 15 ?
C. dissolving 1 part of the acid only ; but the solubility of larixinic acid in cold aqueous solutions is greatly increased by the addition of either acids or alkalies .
Larixinic acid is deposited from its aqueous solutions in crystals which are very brittle , and often an inch or two in length .
It likewise dissolves in cold alcohol , but to a much greater extent in hot alcohol .
The crystals deposited from its alcoholic solutions are thicker and more distinctly formed than those from water .
It also dissolves but sparingly in ether , and is deposited in crystals of very considerable lustre " .
The following are the results of the analysis of the larixinic acid : I. 0*221 sublimed acid , dried in vacuo , gave 0A4633 carbonic acid and 0'1003 water .
II .
0'1993 sublimed acid , dried in vacuo , gave 0'417 carbonic acid and 0'0913 water .
III .
0-2272 larixinic acid , crystallized out of water , gave 0'4756 carbonic acid and 0 1030 water .
Calculated numbers .
Found .
I. II .
III .
C20 = 57'14 57'13 57'06 57'09 Hlo = 4*77 5'04 5'09 5404 010 = 38*09 37'83 37'85 37-87 From these results it is evident that the carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen in larixinic acid are in the proportion of C2 H1 O , , or some multiple of these numbers , C20 HI1 010 being the numbers we have adopted as the more probable .
When a quantity of larixinic acid was dissolved in a great excess of liquid ammonia , a yellow-coloured solution was produced ; when this was evaporated to dryness over sulphuric acid in vacuo , the larixinic acid was deposited in crystals which were nearly unaltered .
It gave its characteristic reactions with salts of iron , and when boiled with milk of lime gave off no trace of ammonia .
The combination which larixinic acid forms with ammonia is therefore so feeble that it is decomposed by the volatility of the ammonia .
In this respect , therefore , and in its forming no hydrate , larixinic acid closely resembles both pyrogallic and oxyphenic acids .
When larixinic acid was treated with an excess of aqua potassae it very readily dissolved , forming a yellowish solution .
When dried over sulphuric acid in vacto , the potash combination formed long flattish crystals having considerable lustre , but of a reddish-brown colour .
These crystals , when pressed between folds of blotting-paper to free them from excess of potash and recrystallized in vacuo , yielded crystals which were more deeply coloured than the first .
This potash combination is so very feeble that it is decomposed by carbonic acid .
It contained a considerable quantity of potash ; but I have not been able to obtain it of a constant composition .
A solution of larixinic acid gives no precipitate , either with lime-water or with saccharate of lime .
The behaviour of larixinic acid with baryta is extremely singular and characteristic .
When a solution of caustic baryta is added to a concentrated aqueous solution of larixinic acid , the latter being in excess , a bulky , semitransparent , gelatinous precipitate immediately falls , and if the solutions are concentrated fills the whole vessel .
This precipitate , which considerably resembles hydrated alumina , is but , slightly soluble in cold water ; but it dissolves very readily in boiling water , from which it is again deposited on the cooling of the liquid .
This baryta compound is readily decomposed by carbonic acid .
When thrown on a filter and washed , the air being carefully excluded , it was dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid , and was then found to contain , as the mean of two experiments , 34'92 per cent. of baryta .
A solution of larixinic acid yields no precipitate with either basic or neutral acetate of lead , neither is it precipitated by nitrate or ammonio-nitrate of silver ; but when its solution in the latter salt is boiled , the silver is reduced in a pulverulent state .
Larixinic acid forms no precipitate with perchloride of platinum , even on the application of heat .
It does not contain any nitrogen .
It does not reduce oxide of copper when tried by TROMMER'S test. .
' I tdissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid , but no conjugate combination is produced , as was ascertained by neutralizing with carbonate of baryta , larixinic acid being obtained unchanged .
When larixinic acid is boiled with a mixture of hydrochloric acid and chlorate of potassa , it is decomposed , but without the formation of chloranile .
When it is boiled with a solution of hypochlorite of lime , no coloration is produced .
It is readily attacked by nitric acid , especially when assisted by heat ; nitrous fumes are given off , and oxalic acid is the only fixed product .
It is also readily attacked by bromine , especially when assisted by heat .
Abundant vapours of hydrobromic acid are given off , the larixinic acid being entirely destroyed and converted into an uncrystallizable resin .
The salts of copper produce an emerald-green colour in solutions of larixinic acid , but no precipitate .
Chloride of manganese produces neither coloration nor precipitation .
Protosulphate of iron strikes a brownish-red colour with solutions of larixinic acid , which acquire a brighter red colour on standing , resembling meconate of iron .
Perchloride and persulphate of iron produce a beautiful purple dahlia-colour , which is very persistent , and stands dilution well .
Its reactions with salts of iron are very characteristic of larixinic acid , which forms an excellent reagent for the detection of salts of iron , even in very minute quantity .
In this way the presence of iron , in tolerably pure sulphate of copper , can readily be detected by the purple coloration produced .
Larixinic acid does not affect neutral protonitrate of mercury in the cold ; and on the application of heat no mercury is reduced .
Larixinic acid appears to be peculiar to the larch tree ; at least I have not been able to find a trace of it in the bark of the spruce fir ( Abies excelsa ) , or in that of the Scotch fir ( Pinus sylvestris ) .
Larixinic acid evidently belongs to that small group of substances 56 of which pyrogallic acid and pyrocatechine , the oxyphenic acid of GERHARDT , are the only other members yet known .
Larixinic acid is much less easily oxidizable than oxyphenic acid , which again is less easily oxidated than pyrogallic acid .
Larixinic acid volatilizes at a much lower temperature than either of these two substances , from which it also differs in being a ready-formed proximate principle , and not an educt .
Addendum .
In consequence of the extremely feeble , if not somewhat doubtful , acid properties of the so-called larixinic acid , perhaps the name Larixine would be more appropriate ; but in that case the name of pyrogallic acid should be altered to pyrogalline , and that of oxyphenic acid to pyrocatechine , the name originally given to it by ZWENGER .
-J .
S.

