THE BAKERIAN LECTURE was then delivered by JOHN TYNDALL , Ph. D. , F.R.S. ; being an oral exposition , illustrated by experiments , of the substance of a paper by him , entitled " On the Nature of the Force by which Bodies are repelled from the Poles of a Magnet ; preceded by an Account of some Experiments on Molecular Influences .
" The paper commences with an introduction , in which the present aspect of the portions of science to which it refers is briefly sketched .
A section is devoted to the examination of the magnetic properties of wood , which substance , the author finds , except where extraneous impurities are present , to be always diamagnetic , and to set in the magnetic field with its fibre equatorial .
The influence of the shape of pointed and flat poles is studied , and those curious phenomena of rotation , first observed by M. Plucker , and attributed by him to the action of two conflicting forces , are referred to molecular structure as a cause .
Between flat poles , it is proved that the line joining the centres of the two poles is the line of minimum force ; that is to say , the force increases more quickly from the central point of the magnetic field in an equatorial direction than in an axial one .
Reflecting on the great diversity of opinion at present existing with regard to the real nature of the diamagnetic force , the author deemed it necessary to commence at the foundation of the inquiry .
A fundamental question in the present case is the following:-Are diamagnetic bodies repelled by a magnet in virtue of any constant property possessed by the mass ?
Is the force in question a mere repulsion of ordinary matter , or is the repulsion exercised in virtue of a state of magnetization into which the body is first thrown ?
This question is answered in a manner which admits of no doubt .
It is proved that the repulsion of diamagnetic bodies increases in a quicker ratio than the strength of the magnet which produces the repulsion .
Within wide limits , indeed , the repulsion , instead of being simply proportional to the strength of the magnet , is proportional to the square of the strength , which leads inevitably to the conclusion that the body thus repelled contributes to the effect produced ; that its repulsion is due to an excited condition into which it is thrown by the influencing magnet , the intensity of this excitement varying within the limits already referred to , as the strength of the magnet which produces it .
This conclusion is further arrived at by a close comparison of the repulsions of diamagnetic bodies with the attraction of paramagnetic ones : both are found subservient to one and the same law .
It is next proved that the diamagnetic excitement produced by one pole of a magnet is not the state which enables a pole of an opposite quality to repel the substance:-that each pole induces a condition peculiar to itself , or , in other words , that the excitement of diamagnetic bodies in the magnetic field is of a dual character .
These points being established , a searching comparison is instituted between the phenomena exhibited by paramagnetic and diamagnetic bodies in three distinct cases:-first , when operated on by the magnet alone ; secondly , when operated on by the current alone ; and , thirdly , when operated on by the magnet and current combined .
A bar of iron was , in some of these cases , compared with a bar of bismuth , but it was soon found necessary , in order to avoid the proved errors of reasoning , to take strict account of the molecular structure of the bismuth .
A bar of this substance , cut in a certain manner from the crystallized mass , exhibits between the poles of a magnet precisely the same visible deportment as a bar of iron , while it is well known that the normal deportment of bismuth is opposed to that of iron .
The author , in his examination of the points before us , divided paramagnetic bars into two distinct classes , and classified diamagnetic bars in the same manner ; one class he called normal , and the other class abnormal .
A normal paramagnetic bar is one which sets its length from pole to pole in the magnetic field , and a normal diamagnetic bar is one which sets its length at right angles to the line joining the poles .
An abnormal magnetic bar , on the contrary , is one which sets its length equatorially ; while an abnormal diamagnetic bar is one which sets its length axially .
In all cases , whether operated on by the magnet alone , the current alone , or the magnet and current combined , the deportment of the normal paramagnetic bar is precisely antithetical to that of the normal diamagnetic one .
In the magnetic field the former sets axially , the latter equatorially .
Operated on by a voltaic current , the former sets its length at right angles to the current , the latter sets its length parallel to it .
When magnet and current act together on the bars , it is found that the disposition of forces which produces a deflection from right to left of the paramagnetic bar produces a deflection from left to right of the diamagnetic bar .
If the position of equilibrium of the former be from N.E. to S.W. , the position of equilibrium of the latter is from N.W. to S.E. In short , the position of rest for the normal magnetic bar is always at right angles to the position of the diamagnetic bar .
A precisely similar antithesis is observed when we compare the abnormal paramagnetic bar with the abnormal diamagnetic one .
The former , in the magnetic field , sets equatorially , the latter axially .
The former sets parallel to an electric current , the latter perpendicular to the same .
If the deflection of the former be from right to left , the deflection of the latter , under like conditions , is from left to right .
Finally , the position of equilibrium of the former is always at right angles to that of the latter .
But if the deportment of the normal paramagnetic bar be compared with that of the abnormal diamagnetic one , it will be found that they are in all cases identical ; and the same identity of deportment is exhibited when the abnormal paramagnetic bar is compared with the normal diamagnetic one .
The necessity of paying attention to structure in experiments of this nature could not , it is imagined , be more strikingly exhibited .
It is proved by these experiments that the simple substitution of an attractive force for a repulsive one would completely convert the phenomena exhibited by paramagnetic bodies into those exhibited by diamagnetic ones .
That if that which Gauss has called the ideal distribution of magnetism in an iron bar be reversed , we have a distribution which would produce the phenomena of a bismuth bar of the same dimensions .
All the phenomena of diamagnetic bodies become equally intelligible with those of paramagnetic ones , when we assume that the former class possess a polarity the same in kind , but the opposite in direction to that of the latter .
It is well known that a bar of iron surrounded by a helix in which a voltaic current circulates is converted into a magnet , and exhibits that twoness of action , -those phenomena of attraction and repulsion at its two ends-to which we give the name of polarity .
The present paper contains an account of experiments made with the view of ascertaining whether similar phenomena were exhibited by a bar of pure bismuth .
A cylinder of the latter substance , 6}inches long and 0'4 of an inch in diameter , was suspended by a suitable device within a helix of covered copper wire , so that it could vibrate freely from side to side .
The ends of two electro-magnetic cores were brought to bear upon the two ends of the bismuth bar , and it was so arranged that the two magnetic poles acting upon the bar might be of the same or of opposite qualities .
The helix being first excited by a strong current , a current of considerably less power was sent round the electro-magnetic cores , and their action upon the bismuth bar was observed : by means of a gyrotrope the current in the helix was reversed , and the effect of the reversion noted ; permitting the current through the helix to flow in its last direction , by means of a second gyrotrope , the current which excited the cores was reversed ; and finally , while the last magnetic polarity remained unaltered , the direction of the current in the helix was once more changed , and the consequent deportment of the bismuth bar was noted .
In making these experiments and exercising some judgment in the choice of the relation between the strength of the magnets and the strength of the current in the helix , the most complete mastery was attained over the motions of the bar .
With one disposition of the forces the ends of the bar of bismuth were promptly repelled , with another arrangement they were just as promptly attracted .
If , when moving towards the cores , the direction of the current in the helix was reversed , the motion of the bar was at once arrested , and attraction was converted into repulsion .
If , while receding from the bar , the direction of the current in the helix was changed , the recession was stopped and the ends of the bar were attracted .
The same results were obtained when , instead of changing the direction of the current in the helix , the polarity of the electro-magnetic cores was reversed .
When the latter were so excited that poles of the same quality were presented to the ends of the bismuth bar , the repulsion of the one pole was balanced by the attraction of the other , and under the influence of these opposing forces the bar stood still .
Pursuing the argument further , a south pole and a north pole were caused to act simultaneously upon each end of the bismuth bar ; supposing one end of the latter to be repelled by a south pole , then , on the assumption of diamagnetic polarity , the same end would be attracted by a north pole ; and permitting both poles to act upon it simultaneously from opposite sides , we may anticipate that the force tending to turn the bar will be greater than if only a single pole were used .
To test this conclusion , four electro-magnetic cores were made use of ; the two poles to the right of the bismuth bar were of the same name , while the two to the left of the bismuth bar were of an opposite quality : with this arrangement the mechanical action upon the bar was greatly augmented , and the foregoing anticipation completely verified .
The bar employed in these experiments is unusually large , but it does not mark the practical limit of success .
All the results obtained with this bar were obtained with another solid cylinder of bismuth 14 inches long and 1 inch in diameter .
The corresponding experiments were made with bars of iron , and it was always found that the arrangement of forces which caused the attraction of the ends of the paramagnetic bar caused the repulsion of the ends of the diamagnetic one ; while the disposition which caused the repulsion of the ends of the paramagnetic bar produced , in the most manifest manner , the attraction of the ends of the diamagnetic one .
As regards the abstract question of polarity , the only difference between iron and bismuth is the comparatively intense action of the former .
In the case of a magnetic body , whose capacity for magnetization does not exceed that of bismuth , and in which coercive force is equally absent , no proof can be adduced in favour of the polarity of the former body that cannot be matched by proofs of equal value in every respect of the polarity of the latter .
'IThe objections that have been and possibly may be used against diamagnetic polarity , are next considered , and some observations are made on the constitution of the magnetic field .
The relation of our present knowledge of diamagnetic action to the theory of Weber , and to Ampere 's hypothesis of molecular currents is stated ; and in conclusion , the author dwells briefly upon those points of diamagnetic action wherein the views of M. Matteucci differ from his own .

