VIII .
An Account of the urinary organs and urine of twSo species of the genus Rana .
By JOHN DAVY , M. D. F. R. S. Read January 18 , i182 , IN a letter to Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , which was written almost two years ago , and which I understand has been honoured with a place in the Transactions of the Royal Society , I have described the kidneys of many different animals of the class Amphibia , and have shown , with one exception not there insisted on , that their urinary secretion is very similar , consisting almost entirely of uric acid .
The exception which occurred to me , was in the case of frogs , on whose urinary organs and secretion I have had an opportunity , lately , of making fresh and more minute enquiry , the results of which I beg leave to communicate .
I shall first relate the observations I have collected on the urinary organs of these animals , and then describe the experiments I have made to determine the nature of their urine .
The examination I have engaged in , has been limited to two species , the bull-frog ( Rana taurina , Cuv .
) and the brown-toad ( Bufo fuscus , Laurenti ) which are both very common in this neighbourhood ; the former inhabiting the lake of Colombo , where it occasionally grows to a great size ; and the latter frequenting houses , and abounding by night in the streets of the Pettah .
The kidneys of the bull-frog are apart , one on each side of the spine ; comparatively pretty large ; very muci lobulated ; of a bright red colour , and rather tender .
The ureters do not terminate in the bladder , but in the rectum , by two soft papille projecting a little , and situated between the orifice of the bladder and the anus , nearer the former than the latter .
The bladder of urine is of large dimensions ; nearly globular semi-transparent , and yet pretty strong and contractile .
It opens into the rectum , a few lines behind the anus , by a large orifice , very well adapted to receive the urine , as it flows from the ureters , when the anus is closed , as it usually is , by its powerful sphincter muscle .
The urinary organs of the brown-toad resemble , in most respects , those of the green-frog .
In two specimens , out of many that I have dissected , I have found the kidneys incorporated at their upper ends .
The ureters have the same termination nearly .
The bladder of urine appears to be double ; when distended fully with air , it resembles two oval bags ; the compartments communicate freely just above the symphysis pubis , to which they are firmly attached ; and they have but one orifice into the rectum , which is as well suited as in the former instance , for the reception of the urine as it flows into the rectum .
The urine of the bull-frog , taken from the bladder imme~ diately after the death of the animal , varies a little in its appearance in different instances ; and , of course varies considerably in quantity , the bladder being sometimes full almost to distension , and at other times quite empty .
The following is a description of a quantity of urine amounting to 300 grains which was collected from thirty-six frogs of different sizes ; 96 It looked like water , and was almost transparent .
It was insipid , but not without smell ; it emitted an odour not unlike that of serum of blood .
It was of sp. grav .
0oo3 .
It is obvious , that with its appearance its chemical nature must also vary .
The urine , the physical properties of which I have described , had no effect on litmus or turmeric paper ; slowly evaporated , it afforded a minute quantity of brownish extract , which had the smell of urea .
It deliquesces when exposed to the air ; and when decomposed by heat in a small glass tube , it yielded a little amber-coloured oily fluid and strong ammoniacal fumes ; and a coal remained , in which I discovered a large proportion of common salt and a little phosphate of lime .
Another specimen of the urine of these frogs , which I examined , was rather more dilute .
I detected in it a minute portion of common salt and of phospllate of lime , without any traces of urea .
The urine of the brown-toad is pretty uniforrm in different instances in its appearance ; and , judging from the experiments I have made , in its nature also .
From eighty-four toads , caught in the streets of the Pettah , 782 grains of urine were collected .
Examined when quite fresh , it was nearly transparent , and would have been perfectly so , but for a few minute flocculi suspended in it .
It was of a pretty bright straw yellow , very like healthy human urine in appearance , with the peculiar smell of human urine , and nearly the same taste in a slight degree .
It was of sp. grav .
0oo8 .
It did not alter litmus or turmeric paper .
Nitrate of silver dropped into it , produced a very copious precipitate of luna cornea .
A solution of corrosive sublimate occasioned a minute fiocculent precipitate .
Neutral acetate of lead , a copious white precipitate .
Aqua ammonia had no effect .
Oxalate of ammonia produced a slight cloudiness ; and a faint cloudiness was produced by muriate of barytes , which did not disappear on the addition of a drop of nitric acid .
A portion of this urine , slowly evaporated , afforded a brown extract , with a strong urinous smell .
To a moiety of this extract of a syrupy consistence , a drop of nitric acid was added ; the effect produced was just the same as if human urine had been the subject of the experiment ; a crystalline compound was immediately formed , which I could not hesitate in pronouncing nitrate of urea .
The other moiety , decomposed by heat in a close glass tube , afforded a considerable quantity of yellow oily fluid , strongly impregnated with subcarbonate of ammonia , and a residual coal , from which I obtained a large proportion of common salt and a little phosphate of lime , and slight traces of a fixed alkaline phosphate .
Another portion of this urine was set aside to undergo spontaneous decomposition .
It has been kept now eight days .
It has become slightly turbid , and has acquired a distinct , though not strong ammoniacal odour , mixed with another kind of odour , not unlike that of cabbage .
The conclusions to be drawn from the results of these experiments scarcely need to be pointed out : it is pretty evident , now , that the urine of the bull-frog and of the brown-toad contains urea , and the latter rather abundantly .
Reasoning from analogy , the probability is , that the urine of frogs and toads in general is of a similar nature , and altogether different from that of the other amphibia .
It is seldom that any very abrupt transitions are to be t98 observed in nature : the urinary organs of the turtle and tortoise , seem to be a connecting link between those of the animals in question , and those of serpents and lizards .
Perhaps additional facts are not required to , prove , that the secretion of the kidneys of animals depends more on the intimate and invisible structure of these organs , than on the kind of food the animals consume ; were such facts wanting , there would be no difficulty in furnishing them .
How different is the urine of the brown-toad and that of any species of small lizards !
yet flies are the favourite and common diet of both animals .
Other remarkable instances might be mentioned , of similarity of diet and difference of urinary secretion ; and , vice versa , instances might be afforded of difference of diet and similarity of urine : I will mention one only ; it is that of parrots and snakes ; their urine , as I have found , being much the same , consisting chiefly of uric acid , though their diet is altogether different , the birds feeding entirely on vegetable matter , and the reptiles entirely on animal matter .
But let me not be supposed to maintain that the urinary secretion depends entirely on the organ , quite independent of the nature of the food or of the blood , from which the elements of the urine are derived .
It appears to be pretty satisfactorily proved , that , caterisparibus , there is a certain relation between the nature of the food and of the urine .
Whilst this has been generally admitted , the relation between the organ and the secretion has been less insisted on , though perhaps not less curious and deserving of attention .
I have hitherto made no allusion to the difference of opinion amongst comparative anatomists , on the subject of the urinary organs of the frog , whether it has , or has not , an urinary bladder ; nor do I propose now , more than barely to allude to it .
I flatter myself , that the analysis I have given of the contents of the bladder of the frog and toad , not to mention the anatomical observations detailed , will satisfy the sceptical , that the bladder of these animals is really a bladder of urine , according to the opinion long since advanced by M. CUVIER .
Colombo , Ceylon , January 28 , I819

