III .
" Products of the Destructive Distillation of the Sulphobenzolates .
-NO .
II .
' By JOHN STENHOUSE , LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received September 8 , 1868 .
In a paper published by rue in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , 1865 , I described the manner of preparing sulphobenzolate of sodium and the products of its destructive distillation in a copper retort , 'These were chiefly sulphide of phenyl and a crystalline substance , of which too small a quantity was obtained to enable me properly to examine it .
As I wished to procure these products in larger quantities , instead of employing small copper retorts , which were rapidly destroyed , I conducted the operation in tolerably large cast-iron ones heated in a gas-furnace , and found that they were not sensibly corroded even after a great number of distillations .
The quantity of sodium-salt decomposed in each distillation was about 200 grammes .
The oily products obtained by this process , after separation from the supernatant watery layer , were introduced into a copper retort having a bent glass tube luted into the lneck and redistilled , the retort being heated to redness towards the close of the operation .
In this way a considerable amount of impurity was removed .
The bright yellow-coloured oil was then rectified in a glass retorlt .
It began to boil at 80 ?
C. , and rose rapidly to 16 50 C. , between which and 1800 C. about one-fourth of the liquid came over .
The temperature then againi rose rapidly to 290 ' C. , and from 290 ?
to 300 ?
a large quantity of nearly pure sulphide of phenyl distilled .
The small quantity of dark-coloured residue in the retort was poured inlto a beaker , where it became semisolid on cooling from the deposition of the crystalline substance I have before mentioned * .
PIenyl-Mercaptan .
The portion boiling between 16 5 ' C. and 1800 C. , on being repeatedly rec* Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xiv .
p. 353 .
tified , gave a liquiid boiling constantly at 172ยง 5 .
This was subjected to analysis with the following results : I. '5345 grm. oil gave 1'280 grm. carbonic anhydride and *265 grm. water .
Theory .
1 .
C-=72 ... .
65'45 65-33 11=6 ... .
545 5'51 S =32 ... .
29-10 110 100 00 The numbers obtained correspond very closely with the formula c , IH3 } S , phenyl-mercaptan .
When pure it is colourless , having an aromatic but soiriewhat alliaceous odour , although not at all offensive .
It has a high refractive index , and boils at 172 ?
'5 C. Insoluble in water , but readily miscible with alcohol , ether , and benzol .
It is readily oxidized , yielding bisulphide of phenyl .
This takes place even when exposed to the air in imperfectly closed vessels .
Vogt* has described an oil which he obtained by the action of zinc and dilute sulphuric acid on sulphobelizolic chloride , C. H , Cl S 02 , and calls benzyl-mercaptan , C6 Ho S. He says it boils at " about 1650 C. , and has an extremely offensive odour .
" Ottot , by the action of nascent hydrogen on sulphophenylenethylene , Cc0 HS 02 } , obtained phenyl:mercaptan , which he showed to be identical with Vogt 's benzyl-mercaptan , but the boiling-point is " between 1700 C. and 173 ?
C. " From the description givenl by Vogt and Otto , it is evident that the phenyl.mereaptan obtained by the destructive distillation of sulphobenzolate of sodium in an iron retort is identical with theirs , and that the offerssive odour ascribed to it by Vogt is due to some slight impurity , probably arising from the phosphoric chloride emaployed in the preparation of the sulphobenzolic chloride .
Phlenyl-mercaptide of lead.-Oii adding acetate of lead to an alcoholic solution of the mercaptan , a bright yellow crystalline precipitate was formed .
This when heated fused , and at a higher temperature was decomposed .
Phenyl-merca:ptide of copper was prepared in a similar manner , substituting acetate of copper for acetate of lead .
On exposure to the air in a moist state it became oxidized , forming cupric oxide and bisulphide of phenyl , C. H1 S , which may be extracted and crystallized from boiling spirit .
The compounds with mercury , chloride of mercury , and silver are identical with those described by Vogt .
Decowposition of Pitenyl-mnercaptide of Lead .
When dry phenyl-mercaptide of lead is heated to a temperature suipelrior to 2800 C. it is decomposed , an oil distils over , and plumbic suiphide is left in the retort .
This oil boils constantly at 292ยง 5 C. , and correspond(Is in all its properties with plenylic sulpiide .
By oxidation it vielded a substance crystallizing in oblique prisms , and which was proved to be sulphdobenzolene .
The action of heat on the lead mercaptide is therefore as follows:2 CG IOI5 S= cC , EIa S Pb S Pbf C I-I5fm2~ This decomposition is especially interesting , as it proves the body obtained by the destructive distillation of the siliphoberizolates to be the truie phenylic sulphide .
Bisulphidde of Pfeenty .
When the pure mercaptan was mnixed with about any equal blulk of coilcentrated suilphuric acid , the latter acquired a dirty purple coloui ' , and after the lapse of some time , with occasional agitatiou , became hot and gave off sulplhuron-s anhydride .
When cold the upper layer solidified to a mass of crystals , which , on being separated from the acid , washed with water , and crystallized several times from spirit , gave a white crystallinie substance .
It was dried in vacuo and analyzed .
I. *308 grm. substaniee gave 745 grm. carbonic alnhydride and * 133 grm. water .
Theory .
1 .
C6 =72 ... .
6605 ... .
65-98 I5= 5 ... .
4 59 ... .
480 S =32 ... .
29 36 109 10000 The analysis correspolnds to the formula Cc II5 S , 6isulplhide ofp henyl .
It is insoluble in water , soluble in alcohol , very soluble in ether , beiuzol , and bisulphide of carbon , melts at 6P C. ( Vog , t* g , ives 60 ' C. as the melting-poilnt of his bisulphide of benzyl ) .
It is again reduced to the mercaptan by zinc and dilute sulphuric acid , or better , by digestion with hydriodic acid and amorphous phosphorus .
As but traces of pheniyl-mercaptaii were obtained on decomposing the sulphobenzolate of sodiulmi in a copper retort , while a considerable pportion of the distillate consisted of the mereaptan when an iron one was used , I was induced to make some experimeents in order to see whether it was the copper which caused this difference .
This I ascertainied to be the case by distilling sulphobenzolate of sodium mi2ixed with copper cuttings in any iron retort , when the proportion of the mercaptan to the sulpllide was comparatively small , and the surface of the copper was convertcd into cupric sulphide .
Graniulated zinc produced a similar result .
Phenylene Sulphide .
The dark-coloured residue in the retort which did not come over at 3000 C. was distilled from a copper retort having a bent glass tube luted into it .
The orange-coloured distillate , on standing a few days , deposited a considerable quantity of large transparent plates .
These were drained as much as possible , and freed from adhering oil by pressure between paper .
The partly purified crystals were extracted with hot spirit to remove the bisulphide of phenyl and other impurities , and then crystallized from benzol or bisulphide of carbon .
A crystallization from spirit rendered them quite pure .
I. 243 grin .
gave *592 carbonic anhydride and.086 grm. water .
TI .
-221 grin .
gave '539 carbonic anhydride and *076 grm. water .
III .
*301 grm. gave -652 baric sulphate .
Theory .
I. II .
1IT .
Mean .
C6 = 72. .
66 67 66-45 66-53 ... .
6649 H14 = 4. .
370 3-93 3 82 ... .
3 87 S= 32. .
2963 ... ... . .
29171 29'71 108 100-00 The analyses of this substance lead to the formula C. 14 S , 8ulp1 de of pphenylene .
It crystallized in long lustrous prisms , which are quite transparent and colourless .
Is insoluble in water , slightly soluble in cold alcohol ( about 400 par-ts ) , but more so in hot .
It is far more soluble in benzol and bisulpbide of carbon , from the latter of which it may be obtained in fine crystals , sometimes half an inch or more in length .
It melts at 1590 C. and solidifies at 1530 C. It dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid , forming a solution of a magniificent purple colour , and which when largely diluted with the concentrated acid appears purplish red .
On the addition of water the colour disappears , and a crystalline precipitate is produiced , apparently the unaltered phenylene sulphide .
With concentrated nitric acid a reaction takes place , red fumes are evolved , and a crystalline substance produced , probably a nitro-substitution compound .
This I have at present under investigation .
Sulphobromide of Phenylene .
When crystals of the pheniylene sulphide are exposed to bromine-vapour they combine with it and turn black , forming sulphobromide of plhenylene .
The best method , however , to obtain this pure , is to add perfectly dry brominie in slight excess to a cold saturated solution of sulphide of phenylene in dry bisulphide of carboni , when the compound is precipitated in the form of minute black prisms .
These are immediately collected , washed with cold dry carbonic disulphide , pressed , and the bisulphide of carbon removed by placing them under the receiver of an air-puimp , rapidly exbausting the air , and allowing it to reeniter several times .
It is theu weighed and treated with excess of pure solution of sulphurous acid , to convert the combined bromine into hydrobromic acid .
This is determined as bromide of silver .
By this miethod the following result was obtained : 821 grnm .
substance gave 1 154 grm. argentic bromide .
This gives 5981 per cent. combined bromine .
The formula CH SBr2 requires 59 70 per cent. bromine .
This substance is therefore analogous to the corresponding ethylene compound discovered by Carus * .
T'he sulphobromide crystallizes in black prisms , which slowly give off bromine oln exposure to dry air , and are rapidly decomposed by moisture with evolution of hydrobroinic acid .
They " are tolerably soluble in carbonic disulphide and tetrachloride .
Phenyl-hyposulphurous Acid .
Amongst the reactions which phenylic sulphide gave with various reagents t , that with sulphuric acid was particularly interesting .
On treating pure sulphide of pheniyl with an equal bulk of conicenitrated sulphuric acid , the oil changed first to a finie red colour , and as the heat increased it became purple , and ultimately dissolved , giving of traces of sulphurous acid .
The comnpound thus produced , when cold , was seinifluid , and gradually absorbed moisture from the air , becoming a semisolid crystalline paste .
This was dissolved in a large quantity of boiling water , neutralized with pure baric carbonate , filtered from the insoluble sulphate , and the solution of phenylbyposulphite of barium evaporated until a pellicle formed on the surface , and then allowed to cool .
The crusts which come out consist of mnicroscopic crystals .
These , after one or two recrystallizationis from boiling water , were dried at 100 and submitted to analysis .
*419 grin .
substance gave '1 7o grm. barle sulphate..334 grmi substance gave '141 grm. baric sulphate .
*320 grm. substance gave *312 grm. carbonic anihydride and 075 grm. water .
Theory .
1 .
i. III .
C= 72 co 2613. .
26161 1177 .
2-54 ... . .
2 61 Ba = 68-5 , , 24-85 24-56 24-82 S2 = 64. .
23'24 04 = 64 .
23-24 275'5 10000 These analyses agree tolerably well with the formula C0 11 Ba S2 03 120 , which I propose to call baric phenylbhyposulphite .
I have prepared the copper salt , which likewise form s crystalline crusts but neither the calcium nor sodium alt crystallizes as well as the barium .
Arn der Cbheim tid Pharmn .
vol , cxxiv p , 113 .
t Prcce .
Roy .
Soc , vol. x ; N p. 354 .
It is not improbable that ethylic and metliylic sulphides , &amp;c. , when treated with concenatrated sulphuric acid , would formcorresponding compounds .
I cannot colnclude this paper without acknowledging the very efficient aid I have received from iny assistanit , Mr. Charles E. Groves , in the preceding investigation .

