A paper was then read , entitled , " On the Action of Nitric Acid on various Vegetables , with a more particular examination of Spartium scoparium , Linn. , or Common Broom .
" By John Stenhouse , Esq. , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1850 .
This paper is a continuation of a series of investigations intended to elucidate the nature of vegetables by means of chemical reagents .
A preceding paper contained an account of the effects produced by the action of sulphuric and hydrochloric acids on the matiere incrustante of several plants belonging to different great classes of vegetables .
The effects of nitric acid upon a variety of vegetable groups are now described ; the researches having been undertaken in the hope that by means of this powerful reagent some light might perhaps be thrown on peculiarities in their respective constitutions .
The first plant experimented on with this view , was the Populus balsamifera , as representing the numerous family of the Poplars .
A quantity of the smaller branches of this tree , cut into pieces , was exhausted with boiling water .
The dark-coloured bitter-tasted liquid which it yielded was evaporated to the state of an extract , which was digested for nearly twenty-four hours with dilute nitric acid .
This strongly acid solution was evaporated to dryness on the water bath , the dried residue was dissolved in a considerable quantity of hot water , and the solution after cooling was carefully filtered .
The clear liquid , after concentration to a very moderate bulk , was exactly saturated with carbonate of potash .
A yellow crystalline sediment quickly appeared .
It consisted of nitropicrate of potash , and the potash salt of a new acid , to which the author has given the name of nitropopulic acid .
The mixed potash salts were then collected on a filter , dried by pressure , and were treated with a cold solution of dilute carbonate of potash , which readily dissolved out the nitropopulate of potash , while it left the nitropicrate of that base unacted on .
The two salts were then separated by filtration , the nitropicrate remaining on the filter , while the nitropopulate was dissolved in the alkaline liquid .
The solution was next slightly supersaturated with hydrochloric acid , when the nitropopulate of potash precipitated as a compact crystalline powder , which was purified by repeated crystallizations out of hot water .
When pure , the potash salt , which crystallizes in small lemon-yellow prisms , is boiled with a considerable excess of hydrochloric acid , and , on the cooling of the solution , the nitropopulic acid is deposited in silky needles , forming concentric groups of a pale yellow colour .
By digestion with animal charcoal , the nitropopulic acid is rendered perfectly colourless .
It is very soluble in water , and still more so in weak and strong spirits of wine .
By digestion with strong nitric acid , it is rapidly converted into nitropicric acid .
In several of its characters nitropopulic acid bears a considerable resemblance to indigotic acid .
When subjected to analysis , the formula of nitropopulic acid dried in the air , was found to be C14 H3 N O,3+HO+2Aqu ; that of the acid dried at 212 ?
F. , C,4 H3 N O013 + HO .
The potash , silver , soda and baryta salts were also analysed .
The Populus nigra , when treated with nitric acid , was also found to yield nitropopulic acid , which appears therefore to be characteristic of the poplar tribe .
An extract was also prepared from Salix russelliana , or the Bedford-wiillow , which , when it was digested with dilute nitric acid , yielded a great deal of oxalic and nitropicric , but no nitropopulic acid .
Extracts of the Cytisus laburnum , or the laburnurn-tree ; of the Swetenia mahogani , or the mahogany-tree ; of the Pyrus malus , or the apple-tree ; of the Crateegus oxyacantha , or the hawthorn ; of the Ribs nigrum , or the black currant bush ; of the Betula alrtns , or the alder ; of the Ulex europceus , or the furze ; of the Calluna vulgaris , or common heather ; of the root of the Curcuma longa , or turmeric ; of the seeds of the Bixa orellana , or annotto ; of the Sambucus nigra , or the elder ; of the Cytisus scoparius , the Spartium scoparium of Linn. , or common broom , when treated with dilute nitric acid , also yielded oxalic and nitropicric acids .
The extracts of ' Quercus robur , or common oak , and of Betula alba , the birch-tree , when digested with nitric acid , only yielded oxalic acid , but no nitropicric or any analogous nitrogenated acid .
The results of these experiments seem to indicate therefore that a far greater number of plants are capable of yielding nitropicric acid than has generally been supposed , those which fail to do so constituting a very small minority .
As the extract of ' broom , Spartium scoparium , besides yielding nitropicric acid , exhibited some interesting peculiarities , it was subjected to a more minute examination .
When an aqueous decoction of broom was concentrated to about a tenth of its bulk , and set aside in a cool situation for twelve hours , it gelatinized into a greenish-brown coherent mass , which was thrown upon a filter and washed with a little cold water .
It con~sisted chiefly of a yellow crystallizable colouring matter ( scoparine , the diuretic principle of broom ) , which was at first contaminated with a considerable amount of chlorophyl .
It also contained a small quantity of a volatile organic base ( sparteine , the narcotic principle of broom ) , the greater portion of which however remained in the motherliquors .
The scoparine , when purified by repeated crystallizations out of hot water and spirits of wine , formed pale yellow prisms of a feeble acid character .
Its formula was found to be C21 H O.10 Scoparine acts as a powerful diuretic .
The mother-liquor from the crude scoparine , after having been concentrated to a very moderate bulk , was distilled along with a considerable excess of soda , when a colourless basic oil slowly collected at the bottom of the receiver .
This oil was the volatile base sparteine .
It has a strongly alkaline reaction , completely neutralizing the most powerful acids .
It is but slightly soluble in acids , but readily dissolves both in alcohol and in ether .
It boils at about 550 ?
F. The taste of its salts is very bitter .
The formula of this base is C15 H13 N. The nitrate , sulphate and hydrochlorate of sparteine are exceedingly soluble , and crystallize with great difficulty .
The nitropicrate of sparteine forms long , slender brittle needles , undistinguishable from nitropicrate of potash .
Its formula is C15 H3 , N , HO , C12 H2 N3 013 .
The double chloride of platinum and sparteine crystallizes in rectangular prisms .
This salt contains two equivalents of water , which it loses at 266 ?
F. Its formula , when dried at 212 ?
F. , is C15 H13 N , HCl+Pt C1 +2HO .
The double mercurial salt crystallizes in large , right rhombic prisms , exhibiting the diamond lustre .
Its formula is Cl5 H13 N , HCI , Hg Cl. Sparteine appears to be a strong narcotic poison , though much inferior in this respect to either nicotine or coneine .
It is plain , therefore , that in employing a decoction of broom-tops in dropsical affections , as has hitherto been the practice , the patient is subjected to the narcotic influence of the sparteine , as well as to the diuretic effects of the scoparine , a result which in general is not likely to be desirable .
The author does not , however , think it is at all necessary to employ chemically pure scoparine for medical purposes .
If a decoction of broom be evaporated to dryness on the water-bath , then treated with a little dilute hydrochloric acid , the mixture thrown upon a filter and washed with a small quantity of cold water , almost the whole of the sparteine will be removed , and the dark green gelatinous mass remaining on the filter will be found to possess the diuretic without the narcotic properties of the plant .

