TES ~ DEI ~ MAR H Fig. 8 .
N p. 225 .
OB AF SEDIARVM G T SC XII .
A brief account of a Roman Tessera , by Mr. John Ward F. R. S. ~ Prof. Rhetor .
Gresh .
THE brass plate , which accompanies this paper , and has been the occasion of it , was dug up some time since at Marketstreet in Bedfordshire ; which lies in the Roman road called Watling street , about five miles on this side Dunstable ; and was brought to the Society by their worthy Member , Samuel Clark Esq ; ~ Read March 3~ 1747 .
The inscription engraven on the two sides is , TE S. DE I. MAR SEDIARVM Which Words may , as I apprehend , be read at length in the following manner : Tessera Dei Martis Sediarum .
The first abbreviated word TE S. I take to stand for Tessera , a dye or cube ( a ) , so called from the Greek word ~ or ~ , four ; respect being had to its number of sides , distinct from the two horizontal planes , above and below .
And under this consideration it was distinguished from the Talus , which being round at each end contained only four planes or faces , whereon it could stand , and therefore when thrown had no more than two side faces in view .
Hence ludere talis et tesseris are spoken of by Roman writers as two different games ( b ) .
See the TA B. But if this was the first and original notion of the word Tessera , it was applied afterwards to many other things ; and that not so much from a similitude in the figure , as from the relation they bore to some other thing , of which they were the sign or token ; as the points , on the upper plane of the dye denoted the good or ill success of the cast .
To recite the several uses of this word would both be tedious and unnecessary ; and therefore I shall mention some few only , from which the design of this plate may the more easily appear .
And ( a ) Macrob .
In somn .
Scip .
lib. 11 .
cap. 2 .
( b ) ~~ And I shall begin with the Tessera hospitalis , which was either public or private .
As to the former , we find among the inscriptions published by Gruter instances of two municipal towns , who put themselves under the patronage of a Roman governor .
And the reciprocal engagement between them , which was engraved on two copper plates , in the form of an oblong square , with a pediment at the top , is called in both TESSERAHOSPITALIS ( a ) .
The design of the latter was to cultivate and maintain a lasting friendship between private persons , and their families ; and gave a mutual claim to the contracting parties , and their descendants , of a reception and kind treatment at each others houses , as occasion offered .
For which end it was requisite , that those Tesserae should be so contrived , as might best preserve the memory of that transaction to posterity ( b ) .
And one method of doing this was by dividing one of them lengthwise into two equal parts , upon each of which one of the parties wrote his name , and interchanged it with the other .
A draught of one made of bone , and so divided , may be seen in Thomasinus , with the name of the person on each part .
Upon one of them is , POLYNICES ASCANI O. F. And upon the other , CLAPHYR ANDRA E. M. I. F. The ( a ) Page .
CCCLXII .
CCCLXIII .
( b ) Plaut .
Paenul .
v. 1~ The names are written on the inside ; and when the two parts were put together , they made a cylinder ( a ) .
From this custom came the proverbial expression , tesseram hospitalem confringere ; which was applied to those persons , who violated their engagements ( b ) .
The tesserae frumentariae are often mentioned by Roman writers , which were small tallies given by the emperors to the populace at Rome , intitling them to the reception of a certain quantity of corn from the public at stated seasons .
And those , who were possessed of them , when they did not want the corn , sometimes sold them to others ; as we learn from the satyrist , when he sais : Summula no pereat , qua vilis tessera venit Frumenti ( c ) .
The person , who had the inspection of these tesserae , and distributed the corn to those , who produced them , seems to have been called tesserarius ; as Pignorius observes from a funeral monument , inscribed SYMPHORO TESSERARIO SER .
CAESARIS ( d ) .
These tesserae were first made of wood , as appears from the words of Pliny , where treating upon the nature and properties of trees he sais , Ligustra tesseris utilissima ( e ) .
But Fabretti has published the draughts of two of them made of stone , in the form of cylinders , and of the same size with the originals .
The length of them is somewhat short of three inches , the diameter three quarters of an inch , and the following ( a ) De tesser .
hospital .
cap. 15 .
( b ) Plaut .
Cistell .
11 .
1 .
29 .
( c ) Juvenal .
Sat. VII .
174 .
( d ) De servis , page .
318 .
ed. 1674 , oct .
( e ) H. N. Lib. XVI .
cap. 8 .
~ 31 .
lowing inscriptions cut upon them contain the names of the persons , to whom they belonged : TORQVATVSLVPVS D. I. CREO P. D. I. PELORI Where D. I. the two last letters in each inscription stand , as he supposes , for die prima mensis , the time appointed for receiving the corn ( a ) .
There was also another sort of tessera , not much unlike these , which entitled persons to a sight of the public games and other diversions ; but they are generally made in the form of an oblong square .
Pignorius has given us the draught of one in his own possession , which consisted of ivory .
Upon one of the sides is the name PHILOMVSVS PERELI , on the next SPECTAVIT , on the third a trident , and upon the fourth a palm branch ( b ) ; the two last of which plainly show , that it was given for admission to the combats of the gladiators .
Others of them had on different sides the name of the person , with the day , on which the show was exhibited , and the names of the consuls at that time .
Instances of these may be seen in Thomasinus , one of which , as he sais , was made of yellow glass ( c ) .
But the tessera militaris most frequently occurs in the Roman historians , which was the signal given by the general , or chief commander of an army , as a direction to the soldiers for putting in execution any duty or service required of them .
This upon urgent occasions was only vocal ; as for a sudden march , ( a ) Inscript .
antiq. page .
530 .
( b ) Ubi supra , page .
38~ ( c ) De tess .
hospital .
cap. 15 .
march , or an attack upon the enemy .
But in ordinary cases , as for setting the watch , taking their diner , or the like , it was written on a tablet .
Tho in either way it was first given by the general to the officers next in rank , and from them to the subalterns , till it came to the person , whose province it was to communicate it to the soldiers in each company .
This tablet was commonly made of wood , as appears from Polybius , who calls it ~ , a small piece of wood ( a ) .
The signal inscribed upon it was very short , and usually comprised in one or two words ; as victoria , palma , virtus , Deus nobiscum , triumphus imperatoris , mentioned by Vegetius ( b ) ; with many others of the like nature , which may be seen in ancient writers .
The person , whose office it was to impart the signal immediately to the soldiers , is by Vegetius called tesserarius ( c ) .
Hence in Gruter 's inscriptions we meet with AVRE .
IANVARIVS .
TESSERARIVS .
LEG .
XIII , and C. GALERIO .
C. LIB .
AGATHON .
TESSERARIO .
COH .
XII .
PRAET .
MILITVM , as also L. POMPEIO .
L. F. POMP .
REBVRRO .
TESSERARIO .
IN .
CENTVRIA ... ( d ) .
By which different forms of expression compared together one would be lead to conclude , that every century had its tesserarius , from whom the soldiers immediately received the signal ; and that when the legion or cohort only is mentioned , the meaning is not , that the person named in the inscription performed that office ( a ) Lib. VI .
page .
479 .
ed. Paris .
( b ) Lib. III .
cap. 5 .
( c ) Lib. 11 .
cap. 7 .
( d ) Page .
DCVI .
10 .
DCVIII .
7 .
DCIX .
10 .
office to the whole legion or cohort , but only to some particular century in each of them .
But besides these civil and military tesserae there were others , which more especially related to religious affairs , and may therefore be called sacred ; to which the inscription on this brass plate seems to agree .
For the two next words engraven upon it , namely DEI .
MAR .
must , I think , stand for Dei Martis .
And if the last word SEDIARVM be taken for the name of a town , called Sediae , this tessera may respect the God Mars , as the tutelar deity of that place .
The religious worship among the Romans consisted chiefly in sacrifices and other public ceremonies , the expense of which in particular places was supported either by the contributions of the inhabitants , or by private gifts .
We have an instance of the latter in an inscription first published by Reinesius , where it is said , that L. Veratius Felicissimus , ( a ) patron of Tolentium , ( or Tollentium a municipal town in Italy ) gave to the inhabitants their annual sacrifices , which were offered on the eleventh of May for a plentiful harvest .
That inscription is cut on a brass plate in the form of an oblong square , with a female bust in a pediment at the top , designed very probably to represent the deity , to whom they addressed .
As the inscription is peculiar in its Kind , I shall here give the whole of it , as it stands in Reinesius .
TESSERAM .
( a ) Grut .
Page .
CXCIV .
2 .
TESSERA M. PAGANICAM L. VERATIV S. FELICISSI MV S. PATRONV S. PAGANIS PAGI~TOLENTINES HOSTIA S. LVST R. E T. TESSE R. AE R. E X. VOT O. L. DD V. I D. MAIA S. FELICI T. ( a ) This is called tessera paganica , as I imagine , from its intitling the pagani , or inhabitants of that town , to the annual claim of the sacrifices therein mentioned .
And so far it agreed with the nature of a public tessera , which being lodged in the hands of the proper officer , authorized him to collect the several contributions assigned for such religious purposes .
And of this latter sort I take the plate to have been , which makes the subject of our present inquiry ; both the form and size of it suiting very well with such a design , as it was portable , and ready to be produced , if occasion required .
And agreeably to this notion of the word tessera the ancient Glossaries interpret tesserarius by ~ , a scribe or clerk .
As to the following word SEDIARV M , tho it no where else occurs , that I know of ; yet this , I presume , can be no just objection against its being taken here for the name of a twon , called Sediae : when it is considered , how many instances of the like nature are to be found in the inscriptions collected by Gruter and others , which give us the names ( a ) Append .
num .
8 .
names of many ancient places in the Roman provinces not mentioned by any other writers .
And besides , the form of this word appears analogous to the names of several other Roman towns here in Britain ; as , Durobrovae Rochester , Ratae Leicester , Rutupiae Richborough , Spinae Spene , and some others .
It is not improbable , that this plate was found not far from the place , whose name it bears ; and which might be situated among the Cateuchlani , as their territories are described by Camden ( a ) .
But as I have never before seen , nor heard of any thing similar to it , I would submit what is here offered to the judgement of the curious in these inquiries .
G. C. Feb. 25 .
1747 .

