III .
' On the Absorption and Radiation of Heat by Gaseous Matter."-Second Memoir .
By JOHN TYNDALL , Esq. , F.R.S. Received January 9 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) Resuming with a new apparatus his experiments on the influence of chemical combination on the absorption and radiation of heat by gases , the author in the present investigation first examines the deportment of chlorine as compared with hydrochloric acid , and of bromine as compared with hydrobromic acid , and finds that the act of combination , which in each of these two cases notably diminishes the density of the gas , and renders the coloured gas perfectly transparent to light , renders it more opake for obscure heat .
Hie also draws attention to the fact that sulphur , which is partially opake to light , is transparent to 54 per cent. of the rays issuing from a source of 100 ?
C. , while its compound , heavy spar , which is sensibly transparent to light , is quite opake to the rays from a source of 100 ?
C. He demonstrates , in confirmation of Melloni , the transparency of lampblack in thin layers , and shows how irreconcilable its deportment to radiant heat is with the idea generally prevalent at the present day , that lampblack absorbs heat of all kinds with the same intensity .
He has repeated all his experiments with gases , using a different source of heat , and finds the result still more pronounced than formerly , that the compound gases far transcend the elementary ones in absorptive power .
Taking air as unity , ammonia at 30 inches tension is 1195 , -this latter figurerepresenting all the heat that issued from the source .
A layer of amminoia 3 feet long is perfectly black to heat emanating from an obscure source .
The coloured gases chlorine and bromine , though much superior in absorptive power to the transparent elementary gases , are exceeded in this respect by every compound gas that has been hitherto examined .
When instead of tensions of 30 inches we compare tensions of 1 inch , the differences between the gases come out still more strikingly .
At this tension , for example , the absorption of sulphurous acid is eight thousand times that of air .
The author also records a new and extensive series of experiments on the absorption of radiant heat by vapours .
The least energetic , as before , he finds to be bisulphide of carbon , the most energetic boracic ether .
He shows that the absorption of the latter vapour , which is quite transparent , is , at 0'1 of an inch of tension , 600 times the absorption of the densely coloured vapour of bromine , while in all probability it is 186,000 times that of air .
The author was led by a series of perplexing experiments , which are fully described in the memoir , to the solution of the following remarkable and at first sight utterly paradoxical problem , " To determine the absorption and radiation of a gas or vapour without any source of heat external to the gaseous body itself .
" When air enters a vacuum , it is heated by the arrest of its motion : when a vessel containing air is exhausted by an air-pump , chilling is produced by the application of a portion of the heat of the air to generate vis viva .
Let us call the heating in the first case dynamic heating , and the chilling in the second case dynamic chilling .
Let us further call the radiation of a gas which has been heated dynamically , dynamic radiation , and the absorption by a gas which has been chilled dynamically , dynamic absorption .
A thermo-electric pile being placed at the end of the experimental tube , and the latter being exhausted , the gas to be examined is permitted to enter : the gas is heated , and if it possess any sensible radiative power , the pile will receive its radiation and the galvanometer connected with the pile will declare it .
Proceeding in this way with gases , the author found that the radiation thus manifested , and which was sometimes so intense as to urge the needle of the galvanometer through an arc of more than sixty degrees , followed the exact order of the absorptions which he had already determined .
After the heat of the radiating column of gas had wasted itself by radiation , the air-pump was worked at a certain rate ; the rarefied gas within the tube became chilled , and the face of the pile turned towards the chilled gas became correspondingly lowered in temperature .
The dynamic absorptions of various gases were thus determined , and they were found to go strictly hand in hand with the dynamic radiation .
In the case of vapours the following method was pursued .
A quantity of the vapour sufficient to depress the mercury column 0'5 of an inch was admitted into the tube , and this was heated dynamically by allowing dry air to enter until the tube was filled .
The radiation of the vapours thus determined followed exactly the same order as the absorption which had already been measured .
The dynamic absorption of the vapour was obtained by pumping out in the manner just described , and it was found to follow the same order as the dynamic radiation .
In these experiments tne air bore the same relationship to the vapour that a polished silver surface does to a coat of varnish laid over it .
Neither the silver nor the air , both of which are elements , or mixtures of elements , possesses the power of agitating in any marked degree the luminiferous ether .
But the motion of the silver being communicated to the varnish and the motion of the air being communicated to the vapour , molecules are agitated which have the power of disturbing in a very considerable degree the ether in which they swing .
The author shows , by strict experiments , that the dynamic radiation of an amount of boracic ether vapour possessing a tension of only 1 12 510 oo th of an atmosphere is easily measurable .
Ile also shows , and explains the fact , that with a tube 33 inches long the dynamic radiation of acetic ether considerably exceeds that of olefiant gas , while in a tube 3 inches long the dynamic radiation of olefiant gas considerably exceeds that of the ether .
Aqueous vapour has been subjected to a special examination , and the author finds it a common fact for the aqueous vapour contained in the atmosphere to exercise 60 times the absorption of the air itself .
In fact , the further he has pursued his attempts to obtain perfectly pure and dry air , the more has the air approached the character of a vacuum .
The author further points to the possibility of determining the temperature of space by direct experiment .
Scents of various kinds have been examined .
Dry air was passed over bibulous paper moistened by the essential oils and carried into the experimental tube .
Small as the amount of matter here entering the tube is known to be , it was found that the absorption by those odours of radiant heat varies from 30 times to 372 times that of the air which formed its vehicle .
In fact the author remarks that the absorption of terrestrial rays by the odour of a flower-bed may exceed in amount that of the entire oxygen and nitrogen of the atmosphere above the bed .
Ozone has also been subjected to examination .
The substance was obtained by the electrolysis of water , and from decomposing cells containing electrodes of various sizes .
Calling the action of the ordinary oxygen which entered the experimental tube with the ozone unity , the absorption of the ozone itself was in six different experiments 21 ; 36 ; 47 ; 65 ; 85 ; 136 .
The augmenting action of the ozone accompanied the diminution of the size of the electrodes used in the decomposing cells .
The author points out the perfect correspondence of these results with those of M. Meidinger by a totally different method of experiment .
The paper contains various reflections on the nature of this remarkable substance .

