II .
" Note on the Invisible lRadiation of the Electric Light .
" By JOHN TYNDALL , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1865 .
Pending the preparation of my complete memoir , which may occupy me for some time to come , I would ask permission of the Royal Society to lay before the Fellows a brief and partial summary of the results of my experiments on the invisible radiation of the electric light .
The distribution of heat in the spectrum of the electric light was examined by means of the linear thermo-electric pile , applied to the solar spectrum by Melloni , Franz , Muiller , and others .
The electric spectrum was formed by lenses and prisms of pure rock-salt , its width being equal to the length of the row of elements forming the pile .
The latter , standing at right angles to the length of the spectrum , was caused to pass through its various colours in succession , and to search the spaces beyond the region of colour , in both directions .
As in the case of the solar spectrum , the heat was found to augment from the violet to the red , while the maximum heating effect was observed beyond the red , and at a distance from the red , in one direction , equal to that of the green of the spectrum in the other .
The augmentation of temperature beyond the red in the case of the electric light is sudden and enormous .
Plotting from a datum line the thermal intensity of the various portions of the spectrum , the ordinates suddenly increase in length beyond the red , reach a maximum , and then fall somewhat more suddenly on the other side .
When the ends of the ordinates are united , the curve beyond the red rises in a steep and massive peak , which quite dwarfs the luminous portion of the spectrum .
The comparative height and steepness of this peak are much greater than those obtained by Professor Muller for the solar spectrum .
Aqueous vapour acts powerfully upon the invisible rays ; and doubtless the action of this substance in our atmosphere has toned down the eminence beyond the red in Professor Miiller 's diagram .
A solar spectrum , produced beyond * Some word is required to denote the acquirement of the knowledge of the constitution of a substance without taking it to pieces ( analysis ) .
" Diagnosis , " used in its purely etymological sense , answers this purpose .
the limits of the atmosphere , would probably exhibit as steep a peak as that of the electric light .
In the experiments now to be referred to , the rays from the electric light were converged by a small concave mirror .
The glass mirror silvered at the back , which usually accompanies the camera of Duboscq 's electric lamp , was one of the first employed .
It was brought so near the electric light as to cast an image of the coal-points five or six inches in advance of the light .
A solution of iodine in bisulphide of carbon , contained in a rocksalt cell , was then placed in front of the lamp : the light was thereby cut off ; but the focus of dark rays remained , and various effects of combustion and incandescence were obtained at the focus .
A mirror 4 inches in diameter , and silvered in front , will enable an experimenter to obtain most , if not all the results now to be mentioned .
I also employ a mirror 8 inches in diameter , and having a focal length of 8 inches , with excellent effect .
It is not necessary to enclose the opaque solution in a rock-salt cell .
The vessel intended for a solution of alum , which usually accompanies the lamp of Duboscq , and the sides of which are of glass , answers admirably .
It is , however , not quite deep enough for the several tests to which I have subjected it , and in crucial experiments I employ a deeper vessel with rocksalt sides .
With the 8-inch mirror just referred to behind the electric light , the opaque solution in front , and the focus of invisible rays about 6 inches distant from the electric light , the following effects have been obtained:1 .
Wood , painted black , when brought into the dark focus , emits copious volumes of smoke , and is soon kindled at the two spots on which the images of the two coal-points fall .
2 .
A piece of brown paper placed near the focus soon shows a burning surface , which spreads over a considerable space , the paper finally bursting into flame .
3 .
Black paper brought into the focus is immediately inflamed .
4 .
The wood of a hat-box similarly placed is rapidly burnt through , and usually bursts into flame .
5 , The end of a cigar , placed at the dark focus , is instantly ignited .
6 .
Disks of charred paper placed in the focus are raised to brilliant incandescence , surfaces of considerable extent being brought to a vivid glow .
Charcoal is also ignited .
7 .
A piece of charcoal , suspended in a receiver of oxygen , is ignited in the dark fociu and caused to burn brilliantly , the rays after crossing the glass of the receiver being still sufficiently powerful to heat the coal up to incandescence .
8 .
A mixture of oxygen and hydrogen is exploded in the dark focus by the ignition of its envelope .
9 .
A piece of zinc foil , blackened on one side to diminish reflexion , is pierced and inflamed .
By gradually drawing the strip , once inflamed , across the focus , it may be kept blazing for a considerable length of time .
This is a particularly beautiful experiment .
10 .
Magnesium wire , presented suitably to the focus , burns with its intensely luminous flame .
In all these cases the effect was due , in part , to chemical action ; this , however , may be excluded .
11 .
A plate of any refractory metal , sufficiently thin , and with its reflective power suitably diminished , is raised to incandescence in the dark focus .
Gold , silver , copper , aluminium , and platinum have been thus rendered incandescent .
12 .
Platinized platinum shows the effect best : in a thin leaf it may be rendered white-hot , and on it is depicted an incandescent image of the coalpoints .
When the points are drawn apart , or caused to approach each other , their incandescent images conform to their motion .
The assemblage of phenomena here described , and others to be referred to in my completed memoirs , may , I think , be properly expresed by the term Calorescence .
This word involves no hypothesis , and it harmonizes well with the term fluorescence , now universally employed with reference to the more refrangible end of the spectrum* .
III .
" Note on a New Object-glass for the Microscope , of higher magnifying power than any one hitherto made .
" By LIONEL S. BEALE .
, M.B. .
, .
F.R.C.P. , Professor of Physiology and of General and Morbid Anatomy in King 's College , and Physician to King 's College Hospital .
Received December 30 , 1865 .
I desire to record the completion of a new objective , with a magnifying power double that of the twenty-fifth .
This glass is a fiftieth , and magnifies nearly three thousand diameters with the low eyepiece .
Messrs. Powell and Lealand , the makers , to whom science is indebted for this the highest power yet made , produced a sixteenth in the year 1840 , and the twentysixth in 1860 .
The fiftieth defines even better than the twenty-fifth , which is now made instead of the twenty-sixth .
Plenty of light for illuminating the objects to be examined is obtained by the use of a condenser provided with a thin cap , having an opening not more than the ~th of an inch in diameter .
The preparation may be covered with the thinnest glass made

