XIII .
An Account of some new Statical Experiments , by J. T. Desaguliers , LL. D. F. R. S. WHENa long and heavy Body lying on the Ground is to be raised up at one End , ( like a Leaver of the second Kind ) while the other End keeps its Place and becomes the Centre of its Motion ; the Prop , that is made use of to support it at any Point in its whole Length , sustains a certain Pressure from the Beam .
Now the Experiments which I shall make are to show , by a Force drawing always in the Direction of the Prop , what is the Quantity of the Pressure on the Prop , according to the Length of the Prop , the Angle which it makes with the Beam , or with the Horizon , and the Distance from the Centre of Motion of the Beam at which the Prop is applied .
For when the Prop is taken away , the Force drawing in the Direction of the Prop will keep the Beam in AEquilibrio ; and a Force ever so little superior to the Friction added to the Power , will make it overpoise the Beam and raise it higher ; but overcome the Power and bring down the Beam , if it be added or applied to the Beam .
Tho ' in every Case and Experiment we have this Analogy taken from mechanical Principles , viz. that The Intensity of the Power : Is to that of the Weight : As the Distance of the Line of Direction of the Weight : Is to the Distance of the Line of Direction of the Power , Yet to find those Distances nicely in the several Applications of the Prop , we must have Recourse to geometrical Constructions and Reasonings .
With these and the algebraical Expressions of the same , the Experiments exactly agree .
I design to give to the Society a Paper upon this Subject , wherein will be explained not only the Investigation of the Proportion between the Power or pressure sustained by the Prop and the Weight of the Body supported , but also the Determination of the Maximums of Pressure , where there are any , and the Nature and organical Descriptions of some particular Kinds of Curves of the third Order , described by one End of the Prop in its successive different Situations .
The Numbers made use of in these Experiments are the result of the Calculations ; and all I propose now is to show the Experiments by Means of a Machine chine which I contrived for the Purpose , and got executed with great Nicety , not in Ornaments , but only where Nicety in a mechanical Instrument ought to be observed ; a Caution useful in many other Machines .
In this Machine , the Iron Bar , or Parallelipiped representing the heavy Body , weighs 12 Drams , 12 Dwt , 12 Grains , or 6060 Grains , and its Centre of Gravity is at the Distance of 20 Inches and a half from its Centre of Motion .
The Props I make use of are , the one of five , and the other of ten Inches .
To overcome the Friction , allowed for by certain Rules in all Cases , I use a nice Brass Pulley of three Inches Diameter , whose Pivots are but 75/ 1000 of an Inch in Diameter ; so that the 60th part of the Power added to it , will , in all Cases , overcome the Friction .
FIRSTCAS E. In which the Prop is perpendicular to the Horizon , exemplified by two Experiments .
EXPERIMENT I. The Prop is equal to five Inches , and placed under a Point in the Bar 10 Inches distant from the Centre of Motion .
Here the Power acting in the Direction of the Prop , able to keep the Bar in that Situation , or the Pressure sustained by the Prop , will be found 250 Ounces , 17 Dwt , 15 Grains ; and the Friction 8 Dwt , 15 Grains .
The Foot of the Prop is to be at 8 Inches and 66/ 100 from the Centre of Motion .
EXPERIMENT II .
If the same Prop of five Inches is placed under a Point in the Bar at 30 Inches from the Centre of Motion , the Power or Pressure will be 8 Ounces , 12 Dwt , 13 Grains ; and the Friction equal to 2 Dwt , 21 Grains .
The Foot of the Prop is to be distant from the Centre of Motion 29 Inches 58/ 100 .
SECONDCAS E , In which the Prop is perpendicular to the Bar , exemplified by three Experiments .
EXPERIMENT I. Now let the Prop ( still five Inches long ) be placed so as to be perpendicular to the Bar in a Point 12 Inches distant from the Centre of Motion .
Here the Power expressive of the Pressure should be 19 Ounces , 18 Dwt , 4 Grains , and the Friction 6 Dwt , 15 Grains ; but on account of a Correction necessary to be made to this , ( because the Bar is thick as well as heavy , and the Centre of Gravity above the Surface to which the Prop is applied ) the Power or Pressure sustained will be only 19 Ounces , 15 Dwt , 5 Grains , and the Friction 6 Dwt , 14 Grains .
N. B. The Distance of the Foot of the Prop in this Case is 13 Inches from the Centre .
EXPERIMENT II .
The Prop here is 10 Inches long , ( still perpendicular to the Bar ) under a Point in the Bar , 24 Inches distant from the Centre .
The Power equal to the Pressure sustained should be ( if the Bar was only heavy , and not thick ) 9 Ounces , 19 Dwt , 4 Grains ; the Friction 3 Dwt , 11 Grains and an half ; but with the proper Correction , which I shall explain hereafter , it must be only 9 Ounces , 17 Dwt , 15 Grains ; the Friction 7 Dwt , 7 Grains .
Here the Foot of the Prop is to be 26 Inches from the Centre .
EXPERIMENT III .
If the End of the Prop is placed under a Point in the Bar , so that the Horizontal Distance of the Foot of the Prop be exactly equal to the Distance of the Centre of Gravity from the said Centre of Motion , viz. 20,5 Inches ; the Power or Pressure sustained by the Prop will be precisely equal to the Weight of the Bar , viz. 12 Ounces , 12 Dwt , 12 Grains .
In this Case , the Prop is distant from the Centre of Motion on the Bar 17,9 Inches , and the Friction 4 Dwt , 5 Grains .
The THIRDCAS E , In which the Angle made by the Prop with the horizontal Line is given , either acute or obtuse .
As this Case is very intricate , ( on Account of the several Powers of the Sine and Cosine of the given Angle , which are multiplied into the Prop and into the Weight of the Beam ) we will exemplify it only in one Experiment ; which is , when the Angle made by the Prop , with the horizontal Line contained between the Foot of the Prop and the Centre , is acute : then there is a Maximum of Pressure , which I will show by Experiment to be the very same as the Calculation gives .
I suppose the Angle made by the Prop and the horizontal Line to be 60 Degrees : The Calculation of this Maximum shows , that if the Prop is 10 Inches long , the Distance measured upon the Bar , to which the upper End of the Prop must be applied , will be 10 Inches 96/ 100 , the Bar itself making then an Angle of about 52 Degrees 12 Minutes ; and the horizontal Distance between the Centre of Motion and the Foot of the Prop is then 11 Inches 72/ 100 .
N. B. Three Things are to be remarked in this Case : First , That when the Angle made by the Prop and the horizontal Line , contained between the Centre of Motion and the Foot of the Prop , is acute , as in the last Experiment , there is always a Maximum : Whereas if the same Angle was obtuse , there would be no positive Maximum ; for then the Pressure would continually increase , the nearer the Prop is to the Centre of Motion .
Secondly , That when the Angle of the Prop with the Horizon is acute , as in the last Experiment , the Bar or long and heavy Body can be raised by applying the Power or Prop always with the same Angle to the Horizon , quite up to a vertical Situation .
Thirdly , That the first Case , which is when the Prop is perpendicular to the Horizon , is only a particular Case of this more general one .
The FOURTHCAS E , Is when the Angle made by the Prop with that part of the Beam contained between the Point to which it is applied , and the Centre of Motion , is given either acute or obtuse .
As the Expression of the Power in this Case is fully as intricate as in the last , I will only give one Example or Experiment ; and , for the greater Satisfaction of those that see it , I chose that , wherein the Pressure is in its Maximum .
I suppose , as before , the Angle made by the Prop , ( still 10 Inches long ) with that Part of the Beam contained between the Point to which it is applied , and the Centre of Motion , to be acute and of 60 Degrees ; then the Maximum of Pressure will be , when the part of the Beam intercepted between the Centre of Motion and the upper End of the Prop is 12 Inches 21/ 100 ; the Bar is then elevated about 50 Degrees 13 Minutes , and the horizontal Distance between the Centre of Motion and the Foot of the Prop is then 11 Inches 27/ 100 .
N. B. Observe also in this Case as in the last .
First , If the Angle made by the Prop , and the part of the Beam intercepted between the Point of Application and the Centre of Motion , is acute , there will always be a Maximum .
The contrary will happen , if that Angle is obtuse .
Secondly , If the Angle is acute , the Bar cannot be raised up to a vertical Situation by applying the Power or Prop constantly with the same acute Angle ; but it may be raised quite up , if the Angle of the Prop with the Beam is obtuse .
Thirdly , The second Case is but a particular Case of this general one .
For the Reasons of all those Things , the Corrections necessary to be made on account of the Thickness of the Bar , the Nature and organical Description of some Curves , and several other remarkable Considerations on this Subject , I must refer to the Paper I shall give in to the Society .

