IV .
Remarks on the second Paper in the History of the Royal Academy of Sciences , for the Year 1711 .
concerning the Cause of the Variation of the Barometer : to show that the Way of accounting for it in that Paper is insufficient , and that the Experiment made use of to prove what is there asserted , does no way prove it .
By J. T. Desaguliers , M. A. F. R. S. The Paper is as follows .
` IT appears by the Barometer , that when it rains , ` or a little before Rain , the Air commonly be ` comes lighter .
` That it must rain when the Air becomes lighter it ` is easy to imagine ; for the imperceivable Particles of ` Water , that swim about in the Air in prodigious ` Quantity , not being sufficiently sustained when the ` Air has lost a certain Degree of its Weight , begin to ` fall , and several of them joining together in the Fall , ` make Drops of Rain .
So when about half of the ` Air is drawn out of the Recipient of the Air-Pump , ` ( and consequently the remaining Air is as weak again ` as at first ) something like a small Rain falls .
But ` why shou 'd the Air become lighter ?
One might ima ` gin that in the Place where it rains , it may have lost ` some of its Weight and Bulk , by means of the Winds ` carrying away some Part of it but Monsieur Leibnitz , ` in a Letter to the Abbot Bignon , gives a more inge ` nious and more new Reason for it .
` He pretends that a Body , which is in a Liquid , ` weighs with that Liquid , and makes up part of its ` whole Weight , so long as it is sustained in it ; but if ` it ceases to be sustained , and consequently falls , its ` Weight no longer makes a Part of the Weight of the ` Liquid , which thereby comes to weigh less .
This ` may naturally be applied to the abovementioned Par ` ticles of Water ; they increase the Weight of the Air ` when it sustains them , which is diminished when it lets ` them fall : and as it may often happen that the Parti ` cles of Water that are highest , fall a considerable time ` before they join with those that are low , the Gravity ` of the Air diminishes before it rains , and the Barome ` ter shows it .
` This new Principle of Monsieur Leibnitz is surpri ` zing .
For must not a strange Body , whether sustain ` ed in a Liquid or not , always weigh ?
Can it gravi ` tate upon any other bottom than that which sustains ` the whole Liquor ?
Does that Bottom cease to car ` ry a strange Body , because it falls ?
And is not that ` Body all the while it is falling , part of the said Li ` quid as to the Weight ?
At that rate , whilst a Chy ` mical Precipitation is made , the whole Matter ought ` to weigh less , which has never been observed , and ` scarce appears credible .
` Notwithstanding these Objections the Principle ` holds good , when more closely examined .
What su ` stains ` stains a heavy Body is pressed by it .
A Table , for ` Example , which sustains a Pound Weight of Iron , is ` pressed by it , and is so only because it sustains the ` whole Action and Effect of the Cause of Gravity , ` ( whatever it be ) to push that Lump of Iron lower .
` If the Table shou 'd yield to the Action of that Cause ` of the Weight ( or Gravity ) it would not be pressed , ` and therefore would carry nothing .
After the same ` manner the Bottom of a Vessel , which contains a ` Liquid , opposes it self to all the Action of the Cause of ` Gravity against the said Liquid : If a strange Body swims ` in it , the bottom opposes it self also to the said Action ` against that Body , which , being in AEquilibrio with the ` Liquid , is in that respect really a Part of it .
Thus the ` Bottom is pressed both by the Liquid and the strange ` Body , and sustains them both But if the body falls , ` it yields to the Action of Gravity , and consequently ` the Bottom does no longer sustain it ; neither will it ` sustain it , till the said Body is come down to the ` Bottom .
Therefore during the whole Time of the ` Fall , the Bottom is eased of the Weight of that Bo ` die , which is no longer sustained by any thing , but ` pushed down by the Cause of Gravity , to which no ` thing hinders it from yielding .
` Monsieur Leibnitz to confirm his Notion , proposed ` an Experiment .
He says , that two Bodies must be ` tied to the two Ends of a Thread , the one heavier , ` and the other lighter than Water , yet such as both ` together may swim in Water : Put them into a Tube ` full of Water , the Tube being tied to one End of ` the Beam of a Balance whose other End has a con ` trepoising Weight : Then if we cut the Thread which ` ties the Bodies together ( that are of unequal Weight ) ` so that the heaviest may presently descend .
He says , that ` in such a Case the Tube would be no longer in AEqui ` brio , but its counterpoising Weight wou 'd preponderate ` rate , because the Bottom of the Tube wou 'd be less ` pressed .
It is plain , that the Tube must be sufficiently ` long , that the falling Body may not reach the bot ` tom before the Tube has time to rise .
In Chemical ` Precipitations , the Vessels are either too short , or ` what is precipitated falls sometimes too fast and ` sometimes too slow ; for then the little Bodies are ` always ( as to Sense ) in AEquilibrio with the Liquor ` that contains them .
` Monsieur Ramazzini , the famous Professor at Padua , ` to whom Monsieur Leibnitz had proposed his Expe ` riment , has made it with Success , after some fruitless ` Trials .
Monsieur Reaumur ( to whom the Academy ` had recommended it ) has also made it with Success : ` This is a new View in Natural Philosophy , which , ` tho ' it depends upon a well known Principle , is very ` subtle and far-fetch 'd ; and gives us just Reason to fear ` that in Subjects that seem to be exhausted , several ` things may yet escape us .
Remarks upon Monsieur Leibnitz 's New Principle .
Figure 4 .
LETAB be the Bottom of a Vessel full of any Fluid , whose Top is either wider than the Bottom as G H , narrower as OF , or equal to it as CD .
The Pressure of the Fluid upon the Base AB will be equal to the Weight of CB , or of a Cylinder or Prism of the same Fluid , made up of the Area of the Base multiplied into the perpendicular Height above it .
If the Fluid be equally dense every way as Water , or of a Density uniformly diminished as you go upwards , this Proposition ( called by Mr. Boyle the Hydrostatical Paradox ) will hold good .
This is demonstrated by all Hydrostatical Writers .
Figure 5 .
Let OF represent part of the Surface of the Earth , and GEFHa Pillar of the Atmosphere , whose Height is GE the whole Height of the Air .
Let us imagine the Vapours rising out of the Earth to form themselves into two Clouds A and B , and to settle in that Place where the Air is of the same specific Gravity with themselves .
It is evident that they will cause the Air to rise so much higher as their Bulk amounts to , and will therefore make the Surface which was at GH to rise up to I K , so that the bottom OF which was pressed by a Pillar of Air as GEF H , is now pressed by an higher Pillar as IEF K. Now if the Clouds A , B , by any Cause soever , change their Place , so as to come downwards , ( for Exemple to ~ , D ) the Height of the Pillar IEFK will remain the same as it was , and therefore Bottom OF will be pressed as before : by the foregoing Proposition .
Corollary I. If the Clouds A , B descend , and in their Descent keep the same Bulk as they had before , the Surface IK will remain the same , and therefore OF will be pressed as before .
Corollary II .
Whether a Body be specifically lighter or specifically heavier than a Fluid ; so long as it is detained in it .
it will add to the Fluid as much Weight as the Weight of an equal Bulk of that Fluid : wheresore a Body does not lose all that Weight which it added to the whole Weight of the Fluid , when it ceases to be sustained in the said Fluid : contrary to Monsieur Leibnitz 's Principle .
Scholium .
If a Cloud ( by any Cause whatsoever ) becomes specifically heavier than that Part of the Air in which it swims , the Excess of its Gravity above an equal Bulk of Air will make it descend , and accelerate its Motion downwards ; and then indeed it will lose of its Weight by the Resistance of the Medium , till it comes to an uniform ( or sensibly uniform ) Motion : but all the Weight that it will lose will only be the Excess of its Gravity above that of the Air ; for with the rest of its Weight it will still make up part of the Weight of the Air .
Experiment I. Figure 6 .
Having with a Weight in the Scale C of the Balance AB counterpoised the long Glass of Water E I , with a Horse-Hair I let down the leaden Weight W into the Water , which from FG arose up to E H ; and therefore the Water became heavier by the Weight of a Bulk of Water equal to the Lead .
Having with another Weight in C made up the Counterpoise to the whole , with fine Scissors I cut the Thread of the Plummet ; and all the while the Plummet was falling , the Water descended rather than rose ; and when the Lead was at the bottom the Water overpois 'd , because it had then added to it all the Excess of Weight of the ~ above an equal Bulk of Water , which by Experiment is about 10/ 11 of its Weight .
Had Messieurs Reaumur and Ramazzini tried the Experiment thus , the Success had been the same ; but Mr. Ramazzini ( as I understood from a Gentleman who was present ) tried it in the following Manner , as I have since done .
Experiment II .
Figure 7 .
Making use of the abovemention 'd Machine , after I had balanced the Water and Lead in it , I fixed to the End of the Beam B the Thread of the Plummet , which in the former Experiment I held in my Hand .
This added to the Weight hanging at B , and obliged me to put into the other Scale a Weight equal to ~ of the I ead , to recover the AEquilibrium .
Then cutting the Thread or Hair , the Scale with the Weights overpois 'd whilst the Lead was falling ; but the AEquilibrium was restored when it came to the Bottom .
So that the Lead even then must have lost only its Excess of Weight above Water .
Experiment III .
Figure 8 .
I tried the Way proposed by Monsieur Leibnitz in the following Manner .
I took a Cork C weighing an Ounce , and something more than four times lighter than an equal Bulk of Water , and a Ball of Antimony W about four times specifically heavier than Water and of four Ounces Weight .
The Cork laid upon the Water in the Vessel EABD raised the Water from SS to G G , and added an Ounce to the Weight of the whole Water : then suspending the Ball of Antimony by a String , and letting it hang in the Water at N , it raised the Water from GG to H H , and so added another Ounce to the Weight of the Water .
Then tying the Antimony to the Cork ( See the Figure of the Vessel marked with little Letters ) the Cork had added to it three Quarters of the Weight of the Antimony which the Hand before had sustained , and made it sink so as to be almost covered , and raised the Water to i k , adding three Ounces to its Weight .
Hanging this Vessel of Water upon the Balance , and a Counterpoise at the other End , upon cutting the String the Vessel of Water was raised up , and the AEquilibrium was not restored till the Antimony came to the Bottom .
By observing that as the Cork ( being freed from the Weight of the Antimony ) arose , and that during the Fall of the Body , the Water sunk to h h , it appears that this is , in effect , the same Experiment as the former , and concludes no more .
As to the real Cause of the Variation of the Barometer , namely , the Accumulation of the Air by Winds over the Place where the Barometer rises ; and part of the Air being blown away where the .
Mercury in the Barometer sinks , see Doctor Halley 's Account of it in the Phil. Transactions .
Numb. 181 .
POSTSCRIP T. IN making the first Experiment before the R. Society ; of a Piece of Lead suspended by a Thread , whilst it was wholly covered with Water in the large Tube in which it hung ( whose Length was 4 Feet ) it was observable , not only that the End of the Balance ( to which the Tube of Water with the Lead in it was fixed ) did not rise .
when the Thread was cut , ( to let the Lead fall from the Top to the Bottom of the Tube ) as it must have done according to Mr Leibnitz 's Principle , but that the said End of the Balance began to descend from the Time that the Lead began to fall .
Therefore to be sure that it was not the Plummets rubbing against the Sides of the ~ in its Fall , which caused that ~ , I hung to the Balance a long Glass of three nches diameter instead of the Tube , and making the Experiment as before , it succeeded in the same manner : the End of the Balance which carried the Vessel of Water sunk as soon as the Thread of the Plummet was cut ; tho ' this Glass was not above half so long as the Tube .
When by holding the String I drew the Lead upwards and downwards in the Water , there was no sensible Alteration of the AEquilibrium .
Neither was it altered by cutting the String of a Stone .
Plummet , because of the Shortness of the Glass , and the little Excess of specific Gravity in the Stone : for the greater the Difference is betwixt the Body made use of in this Experiment and Water , as well as the bigger the Body it self is , the better the Experiment will succeed .
Hence it appears , that when a Body , specifically heavier than a Fluid , is ( by what cause soever ) detained in any Place of the said Fluid , it adds as much to the Weight of the whole Fluid as an equal Bulk of the said Fluid amounts to : And when the said Body , by the Action of its Excess of specific Gravity above the Fluid , descends with an accelerated Motion ; so long as that Motion is accelerated , the Resistance of the Fluid ( which is as the Square of the Velocity ) takes off something of the whole Weight of the Body ; but as much as the Body loses , so much the Water gains , over and above what was given it by its rising on Account of the immersed Body .
A Body therefore that falls in a Fluid is so far from making the Fluid lighter as it falls , that it makes it press more upon the Bottom that sustains it , when it is falling , than when it was at rest in the Fluid .
If the Vessel of Water be long enough for the falling Body to come to an uniform Motion before it reaches the bottom , the Force impressed on the Water under the Body will make it press the Bottom , as much as if the Body were actually at bottom ; the Body in that Case losing sing all its Excess of Gravity above that of the Water , and the Water gaining it .
Hence it follows .
that a falling Cloud , when it comes to an uniform Motion , will not only add to the Weight of the Air as much as the Weight of an equal Bulk of Air ; but even as much as its whole Weight amounts to , tho ' it be specifically heavier than the Air about it .
All the Diminution of Weight that can be allow 'd in this Case is this .
If we imagine the Air to have a smooth , regular Surface , as we have at first supposed , ( or if that be not allow 'd , we may take any imaginary Surface of it above the Clouds ) when a falling Cloud is diminished in Bulk , ( as when it is changed into Rain ) the Surface of the Air will subside in proportion to that diminution , and therefore will subside less , by so much as is the Weight of a Quantity of Air equal to the Bulk that Cloud has lost : But when the Drops of Rain after their Acceleration ( occasioned by their Excess of Gravity above that of the Air ) are come to an uniform Motion by the Resistance of the Air , they restore to the Air the Weight that it had lost .
Now this uniform Motion being acquired in about two Seconds of Time , and the Diminution of Gravity in the Air being insensible , when compared to near three Inches of Mercury ( for such is the Variation of the Barometer with us ) can no way be the Occasion of those so sensible Alterations in it , which happen some time before Rain or Fair Weather .
Add to this that the whole Quantity of Rain that falls in England and France , in the Space of one Year , scarce ~ equals two Inches of Mercury : And in most Places between the Tropicks , the Rains fall , at certain Seasons , in very great Quantities , and yet the Barometer shows there very little or no Alteration .
Fig. 7 .
DIF LM F IK DIE GH Fig. 5 ~~B OF Fig.3 E Fig. 8 .
Ded~D GH OF Fig. 2 .
ik C ~Hc GG Shh Sgg ssA The Pavement B The Bath .
C. The Sink and N the other Passage through the Wallat the East end of the Bath ~D The Roman Brick nth .
bounded ab the Pavement , laid flat and covered with B A Fig. 4 .
~.E.~ continued several ways .
E. The Landing place out of the Bath .
G. The corner of a large space paved nth Roman AB Brick , and covered with Ashes , Coals , &amp;c. Philosoph. Transact. No. 351 .

