Fig. 3 .
s b Fig. 4 .
D~ sss nnnnnnn n nn ee dd AccccccccccccccBAccB ssssssss~~ ~~ nnnss nB n sss ns s Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
n s Fig. 5 .
neddennn cc nsnn~~ee ee~~dd ~ddss~~~cc~~~ sB ccneen s~~~~s Fig. 11 .
Fig. 8 .
neen and c snndnnncc Fig. 9 .
dee nsss~~~~s snccs ns~~~~s sn nnn ss s bee sn Fig. 10 .
enne Fig. B ssss en Fig. 12 .
e n nnnnnnnnn e e scc AB sssssssss IX .
An Account of some Electrical Experiments made before the ROYALSOCIETY on Thursday the 16th of February 1737-8 .
By the Same .
EXPERIMENT I. TAB. I. Fig. I. I Took the Glass Tube AB of two Inches Diameter , which had at one End A , a Brass Ferril with a Brim cemented to it , and at the other End B , a Brass Cap close at Top , the Brass-work being joined to it , in order to exhaust it of its Air upon Occasion .
When this Tube was very dry , it would become electrical by rubbing , so as to snap by passing the Ends of the Fingers near it ; but that Virtue could not be excited in the Tube nearer the Brass at the Ends than from a to b , and not unless the Tube was very dry within .
The Tube being thus prepared , and having an Ivory Ball C , of about two Inches Diameter , tied to it at the End B by a short String , I passed the Tube through the horizontally suspended Plate D D , till it was stopped by the Brim at A ; and as it hung perpendicularly , the Ball C was within a Foot and an half of the Floor .
The Plate DD was about 10 Inches in Diameter , and suspended by three small Cat-gut Strings as E , e , of about two Feet in Length , all which were tied together at E , to an hempen String hanging from the Ceiling at F. By reason of the Distance of the Ends of the Cat-gut Strings close to the Plate at ee e , I was able to thrust in between them one End of an open Tube G G , after I had rubbed it so as to make it electrical , to see whether I could make the aforesaid suspended Tube AB the Conductor of Electricity to the Ball C ; but the first Trial was in vain .
EXPERIMENT II .
Then laying horizontally over the Plate DD an Iron Bar a quarter of an Inch thick , and a Yard long , I hung at the Ends of it two Ivory Balls c c , of the same Size as C , by Packthreads of the same Length as the Tube A B. Having again made the Tube GG electrical , I applied it over A , as before , and immediately the two Balls cc received the Electricity , so as to attract the Thread of Trial T hanging at the End of the Stick S T , when applied near them ; though it received no Motion when applied to C. But if the Strings H c , instead of Packthread , were Cat-gut , then the Balls cc received no Electricity from the Tube GG rubbed and applied over A. N. B. To be sure that the rubbed Tube is made electrical , I pass my Fingers near it after rubbing , to hear whether it snaps ; but always rub again before I apply it ; because by snapping it loses its Electricity at the Place where it snaps .
EXPERIMENT III .
When I rubbed the Tube A B , it would then attract the Thread of Trial T between a and b ; but not at all above a or below b , unless when I applied the Tube GG above A : Then the Thread of Trial would be attracted by the Plate D D , and the Top of the great Tube from A to a , but no lower .
It would also be attracted by all the Bar H H , and only three or four Inches below H. EXPERIMENT IV .
Having filled the Tube AB with Water , the Electricity of the rubbed Tube G G , applied at A , ran strongly down the Tube A B , and impregnated the Ball C , so as to make it strongly attract the Thread of Trial , whilst the Balls cc received no Virtue at all .
But upon wetting the Cat-gut Strings Hc with a Spunge , all the three Balls cC and c strongly received the electrical Virtue .
EXPERIMENT V. I took away the Bar H H , and its Balls and Strings ; and having well dried the Tube , I rubbed it , and hung it up as before ; so that it would snap , or attract the Thread from a to b , but no-where else .
Then putting the small Bar HH into the Middle of the Tube AB in its Axis represented by the pricked Line , upon Application of the rubbed Tube GG at A , the Virtue was immediately communicated to the Ball C. The same thing happened , when , instead of the Bar , a Brass Wire , a Walking Cane , a small green Stick , or small Packthread , was placed in the Axis of the Tube .
EXPERIMENT VI .
I took a Barometer Tube empty , and very dry , and placed it in the Axis of the great Tube A B ; but it would conduct no Electricity to the Ball C ; though it carried it down very readily when full of Water , though quite dry on the Outside .
Another small Tube open at both Ends , which conducted no Virtue to C when dry , being only moistened a little by the Breath in blowing through it , carried down the Virtue from A to C very strongly .
N. B. All this while the Cat-gut Strings Ee received no electrical Virtue .
As I design to pursue these Inquiries much further , I beg Leave to be allow 'd to make use of some Terms , ( which I shall here define ) in order to save using many Words in giving an Account of some electrical Experiments , which I have made , and shall hereafter make .
DEFINITION I. A Body electrical per se is such a Body in which one may excite Electricity by Rubbing , Patting , Hammering , Melting , Warming , or any other Action on the Body itself , as Amber , Sealing-Wax , Glass , Resin , Sulphur , &amp;c. besides many , if not all , Animal Substances .
DEFINITION II .
A Non-electrical is such a Body as cannot be made electrical by any Action upon the Body itself immediately ; though it is capable of receiving that Virtue from an Electrical per se .
OBSERVATION S. 1 .
When the Air is full of moist Vapours , Electricals per se are excited to Electricity with very great Difficulty , requiring to be often warmed , and much rubbed ; as appears in exciting that Virtue in Glass , Amber , Wax , &amp;c. 2 .
In dry Weather , especially in frosty Weather , the Electricals per se will have their Virtue excited with very little Action upon them ; as appears by warming a Glass Receiver , which , without any rubbing , will cause the Threads of a Down Feather , tied to an upright Skewer , to extend themselves as soon as it is put over the Feather .
Sometimes Resin and Wax exert their Electricity by only being exposed to the open Air .
3 .
Electricals per se retain the Virtue longest when kept near to , or enclosed by , other Electricals per se .
Thus the rubbed Tube will retain its Virtue pretty long in dry Air , as appears by chasing a Feather about the Room very long without new rubbing ; as also by Lumps of Resin and Sulphur , &amp;c. which have been melted and poured into dry Drinking-glasses , keeping their Virtue long , if kept in those Glasses , and wrapped in dry Silk , or such sort of Paper as will become electrical by rubbing ; for as often as they are exposed to the Air , they will attract .
4 .
Electricals per se communicate their Virtue to any of the Non-electrical , when brought near them ; in which Case the Non-electricals attract and repel like the Electricals per se .
Thus an Iron Bar suspended by a silken Thread , an Hair Rope , or a dry Cat-gut , when an excited Electric per se is brought near it , will both attack and send out its Effluvia to a Non-electric held near it ; as appears in the Dark by the Light coming out at the End of the Bar .
5 .
An Electrical per se loses its excited Virtue in communicating to the Non-electrical ; and the sooner , the more of those Bodies are near it .
Thus in moist Weather the rubbed Tube holds its Virtue but a little while , because it acts upon the moist Vapours that float in the Air ; and if the rubbed Tube be applied to Leaf-Gold or Brass , laid upon a Stand , it will act upon it much longer , and more strongly , than if the same Quantity of Leaf-Gold is laid upon a Table , which has more Non-electrical Surface than the Stand .
6 .
When a Non-electrical is suspended by , or only touches an Electrical per se , it receives the Properties of an Electrical per se from a rubbed Tube or Wax , &amp;c. This appears by the Fire that flashes from the Fingers of a Man suspended by HairRopes , or who stands upon a Cake of Resin , when he has received Virtue from the rubbed Tube .
7 .
The Virtue which a Non-electrical receives from a rubbed Tube , runs on to the most distant Part of the suspended Body from the Place where the Tube is applied , and seems to be collected there , from whence it flashes in the Dark , snaps , and exerts its Attraction upon the Thread of Trial ; though as the Virtue runs along , it sometimes shows itself in other Parts of the suspended Non-electrical .
8 .
If a Non-electrical , whilst it is receiving the Virtue from the rubbed Tube , be made to communicate with the Floor of the Room , or any other great Non-electrical Body by a Non-electrical String , how small soever , ( though but a Thread ) the Virtue will not show itself , as it did before , at the Extremities , where the Flash of Light was seen .
9 .
If a Non-electrical be ever so big , when suspended , it will receive Electricity from the rubbed Tube .
And if five or six hundred Foot long , when the rubbed Tube is applied at one End , the Bodies hanging at the other End will become electrical .
This has been tried by several People as well as myself .
10 .
If a long Non-electrical String be fastened to an Electrical per se , and extended to a great Distance , being supported by Electricals per se to keep it from touching the Ground , all Bodies fastened at the End of it will become electrical when the rubbed Tube is applied at the other End , though the Tube does not touch it , but is only brought within two or three Inches of it .
N. B. This String we have before called the Conductor of Electricity , and the Cat-gut or silken Strings , Glass Tubes , or whatever kept the long String from touching the Ground , Supporters .
If any of the Supporters , mentioned in the last Observation , be changed for a Non-electrical Supporter , the Virtue will there be stopped and taken away by that Supporter : But if that Supporter be again supported by Electricals per se , it will only receive so much Electricity as will impregnate it , and then the Virtue will go on to the End of the String , and impregnate the Bodies fastened to it .
12 .
The Non-electricals receive the greatest Virtue at the End of the String , and most of all , if they are wet .
But the Electricals per se , if long Bodies , as long Sticks of Wax , and Glass Tubes , only become electrical at the End next to the String .
13 .
Electricals per se will become Non-electricals , if they be wet , or only moistened .
Thus Supporters that transmit the Electricity immediately , stop it when wet with a Sponge , or when blown through , if open Tubes .
And if the long Electricals per se , hanging at the End of the Conductor , be made wet , they will become Non-electricals , and strongly receptive of the Virtue given by the rubbed Tube at the other End of the String .
N. B. All the six Experiments mentioned in the Beginning of this Paper , confirm this Observation .
14 .
A Non-electrical having been impregnated with Electricity by the rubbed Tube , is repelled by it , till it has lost its Electricity by communicating it to another Non-electrical .
Then being in its first State , it is again attracted by the Tube , which holds it till it has fully impregnated it ; then it repels it again .
This is evident , by attracting a Down Feather by the Tube in the Air , and then repelling it ; so as to make it dance backwards and forwards to and from a Finger held up at a Foot or two from the Tube .
But the Thing appears more plainly from the following EXPERIMENT VII .
Having rubbed the Tube T t , ( see TAB. I. Fig. II .
) and with it attracted a Feather , the Feather at t was repelled from the Tube , whenever it was brought near it ; but suddenly dipping the End T of the Tube in Water , the Feather floating in the Air came to it again , and stuck to the End of the Tube at T or near F. N. B. In fair Weather this Experiment will not succeed , unless the Tube be thrust pretty deep into Water ( a Foot at least ) ; but in moist Weather an Inch or two will do .
P. S. Though animal Substances be generally thought to be Electrical per se , yet it is only when they are very dry : This is the Reason why a living Man suspended by a Hair Rope , or standing upon a Cake of Resin , to receive Electricity from the Tube , must be considered as a Non-electrical , by reason of the Fluids of his Body .
N. B. The above Observations , together with the Queries in my former Papers , will be further illustrated by some Experiments which I do not now mention , because I have only tried them at home ; but when I have tried them before the ROYAL SOCIET Y , I shall give an Account of them in Order .

