R ~~ ~ .
Transact. No. ~ .
E RR Fig. II .
R M K V baR Fig. III .
R V KD R Fig. I. LL X Fig. IV .
pr Rea ~Vkr R Rp ~ke~ Rp p Fig. V. B p b k ~ Rc ka p A V. A Way for Myopes to use Telescopes without Eye-Glasses , an Object .
Glass alone becoming as useful to them , and sometimes more than a Combination of Glasses .
Communicated to the Royal-Society , by the Reverend J. T. Desaguliers , LL. D. and F. R. S. Lemma I. WHat is required of a Telescope is to give large , and distinct Vision ; that is , to make the Object ( as in Galilaeo 's Telescope ) or its Image ( as in the Telescopes made up of Convex Lentes ) appear under a great Angle , and to have all the Rays of those Pencils that enter the Eye , meet in a point upon the Retina of the Eye , on their respective Axes .
The first Figure represents the Combination of two Convex Lentes for the Astronomical or inverting Telescope ; where the above-mentioned Requisites are obtained .
AB is the Object supposed at a vast distance from the Objective Lens L L , so that Rays coming from the extremity A of the Object , will fall upon the Lens L L , in the same manner as if they were parallel to their Axis A X ; and after passing the Glass unite at a , where they project the Image of the Point A ; from whence diverging , they fall on the EyeGlass ll , and having passed through it , go on parallel to each other , and enter the Cornea of a common Eye E , which unites those parallel Rays upon its Retina RRR at ~ , where the Image of a is projected : The same may be said of the Rays that come from B , and after their several refractions through the two Glasses and the Coats and Humours of the Eye , meet upon the Retina at ~ , where they project the distinct Image of the Point b. The Rays that come from all the Points of the Object AB being affected after the same manner , give a distinct Image of those Points upon the Retina , and therefore the Object does appear distinct .
The Object will also appear magnified in the same proportion as the Angle lCl= to bMa ( under which its Image is seen , ) is greater than the Angle ACB under which the Object AB would be seen by the naked Eye ; as is more at large demonstrated by Dioptrical Writers .
Lemma 2 .
If parallel Rays fall upon the Cornea of a Myops , or short-sighted Person , they will unite in the Eye , before they come to the Retina , the farther from it the more Convex the Eye is ; but if the Rays which fall upon the Cornea diverge in proportion to the too great Convexity of the Eye , as from D , such Rays will be so refracted by the Coats and Humours of the Eye as to meet in one point upon the Retina R R , see Fig. 2 and 3 .
Where I have in the Scheme neglected the Refraction of the Rays passing out of the Crystalline K into the Vitreous Humour V , as I do in the other Cases .
This Lemma is also demonstrated by Dioptrical Writers .
Lemma 3 .
If two Pencils of Rays ( in each whereof all the Rays are parallel to the Axis , as a C ) fall upon different Parts of the Cornea , at the greatest distance from one another that can be allow 'd for those Rays to enter the Pupil P P , their Axes will , after entring the Aqueous Humour , converge , and meet either in the Vitreous , or Crystalline Humour , according to the Convexity of the Cornea thro ' which they passed , and diverge again before they come to the Retina ; the Rays of each Pencil converging upon their respective Axes , to the place where the said Axes cross one another , Fig. 4 .
Demonstration .
The Axes aC a , ~C ~ , falling obliquely upon the Cornea at C , C , and entring from Air into the Aqueous Humour , will be refracted towards the Perpendicular to K : where striking more directly upon the Crystalline , they will go on to ~ , a , upon the Retina RRR R , decussating at V within the Vitreous Humour .
The other Rays r , r ; ~ , ~ , after their Refraction in the Aqueous Humour , fall more obliquely on the Crystalline , and therefore are refracted again so as to meet at V , where the Axes also meet , and thence go on to the Retina RRR R , Fig. 4 .
Lemma 4 .
But if the Axes of the above-mention 'd Pencils are Parallel , the Rays that accompany them diverging from a Point so near the Eye , that the divergence may be proportionable to the too great Convexity of the Eye ; then only the Axes will meet in the Eye before they come to the Retina ( by Lemma 3 .
) but the other Rays will not unite upon their respective Axes , till they come to the Retina , ( by Lemma 2 .
) Proposition .
I suppose the Eye of the Myops so Convex that he can see no farther than a common Eye , with the EyeGlass of a Telescope before it : then the Eye of the Myops being in the place of the Eye-Glass , will receive the Rays diverging from the several points of the Image ( projected by the Object-Glass in its Focus , ) in such manner , that they will after their several refractions meet in respective Points on the Retina ; and the Axes of the Pencils which come from the extremities of the Object , will , in the Eye , make the Angle BVA= to bc a , under which the Image ab is seen , by Lemma 4 .
The Cornea and Aqueous Humour here supply the place of the Eye-Glass , and the Crystalline and Vitreous Humours that of a common Eye , See the 5th Fig. wherein R is the Retina , V the Vitreous Humour , and KK the Crystalline Humour ; and the Image ba is supposed to be brought down from the first Fig. which represents the Astronomick Telescope : the too great Convexity of the Eye here being in the place of an EyeGlass .
An Objection may be made to this , viz. that PP the Pupil of the Eye being small , will take in but a very little Image , or a small part of the Object : But then if the Eye be moved successively , to all the parts of the Space where the Eye-Glass was , it can take any part of the Object ; and if the Object-Glass be large , which may more easily be made than a large Eye-Glass , and the Tube a Foot wide or wider , as much may successively be taken in , as if an Eye-Glass might be had of a Foot Diameter .
A little practice may make any Myops so ready , as to keep an Object when once found , though the place where he stands be shaken .
It would not be amiss to hold a Lens in one 's Hand ( for an Eye-Glass ) to find the Object at first , till custom has made it easy without it : when once the Object is found , it may be easily kept .
An Eye more short-sighted than I have supposed , will perform the Office of a more Convex Eye-Glass , being brought nearer to the distinct Base of the Object Glass ; and an Eye less Convex , the office of a less Convex Eye-Glass : but with this difference , that the more Convex the Eye is , the easier may any part of the Object be found , and the larger and more lucid it will appear .
I have seen Saturn 's Ring very plain with an Object-Glass of little more than six Foot Radius , without an Eye-Glass .
I have also found out a way for the Presbytae to make use of an Object-Glass , by placing their Eye nearer the Lens than its Focus , by so much as their Eye is flatter than a common Eye , so as to make ( as it were ) the Telescope of Galilaeo ; the flat Eye serving as a common Eye armed with a Concave Lens .
I have so fixed the Telescope , as to make a Presbyta read at a great distance a small Print .
The truth of this may be easily demonstrated , if it be required .
If this Experiment be made at Sea with a very large Tube , big enough to put in the Head and move it about , and the Object-Glass be also large , it may not perhaps be difficult to observe the Eclipses of the Satellites of Jupiter , which I would recommend to the Consideration of those that would try for the Longitude by such like Observations .

