Philo : Trans : No. 411 Fig. 1 .
Tab. II a Q P PPr A XT~ KRV Y y x u~ J eb Hh LOnB F W DSMNI~E YZ APC XP RPT Fig. 2 .
Q r B L 8 7 X ~ Z F A Fig. 3 .
6 W c CR C n P~PI qrcIc QG r Fig. 4 .
B ZQ 1~ Fig. 6 .
C 2 RW 543 DE M G PN ZP Parf g A ~ 411 .
r g ~ r L c F r P arf g A L OF K~ WE eC i RiH S DI n bh fo Fig. 7 .
kI IO q bDB CA B Fig. 5 .
Q LL PL I. P L H 7 .
IV .
Some Observations on the Crane , with Improvements on that Machine , by J. T. Desaguliers , F. R. S. Shown the Society in Models , but here exemplified by Figures .
THE Crane is an Instrument so much used , and so well known , that it wou 'd be needless here to give a particular Description of it ; but as there are several Sorts of Cranes , and as that Machine is to serve for different Purposes , I wou 'd only show what kind of Crane is most proper for any particular Work ; and how to prevent those Accidents which daily happen through the Carelessness of common Labourers , to the damaging of Goods , and often the wounding , or killing of the Men .
When great Weights are to be raised from a great Depth , and laid on Carriages very near the Precipice , as at the Edge of a Stone Quarry , the Crane must be a fixed one , and only the Gibbet moveable , from which the Weight hangs , as in Fig. 1 .
Here , in the common Way , the Rope Rr r , or Chain , which runs over the Gibbet , goes between two Pullies P , Q , fixed within the upper horizontal Beam of the Crane AQT X , above the Axis of the Gibbet BG V , so as to be carried easily to the Right or Left Hand , from W to w , when the Gibbet turns upon its Axis to bring the Burden over the Carriage designed to receive ceive it .
For this Purpose , a small Rope , called the Guide-Rope , is fastened to the Weight , or to the upper Part of the Gibbet near its Extremity , g , which a Man is to pull to bring the Weight over the Place , to which it must be lowered .
Now in performing this , the main Rope or Chain not continuing parallel to the Arm of the Gibbet , gives the Weight a Tendency towards that Side to which it deviates , and that sometimes so suddenly , that without Care , and much Force applied , if the Weight be very great , the Burden will swing to or from the Carriage , so as to break every thing in its Way .
Sometimes an horizontal Piece , like an Handspike , is fixed in the upright Shaft of the Gibbet a little above B , to turn it by ; but in that Case too the Force is unequal , as the Weight is carried round ; so that the Lives of the Men that are Loading , often depend upon the Care of the Man who guides the Weight , by either of the Means abovementioned .
N. B. No Situation of the Pullies can prevent this ; and we find Accidents to happen every Day , as will appear by the Examination of Fig. 3 .
But if upon the Axis of the Gibbet there be fixed an Iron Wheel , y , with many Teeth , to be carried round by a Pinion , u , of a few Leaves , upon the End of whose Axis is fastened a Wheel , x , with Arms ( that Axis going through the perpendicular Piece TZ behind the Shaft of the Gibbet ) a Man standing at that Wheel is out of Harm 's Way , and has such an Advantage of Power as to hold the Weight steady in any Place required , notwithstanding its Tendency to swing , as mentioned above , which is not felt at the Ends of the Arms of this last Wheel .
The first who has made Use of this Contrivance is Mr. Ralph Allen , Post-master of Bath , at his StoneQuarry , where the Weight raised is 4 or 5 , and sometimes 6 or 7 Ton .
I need not say that the Power to bring up the Weight works here by Means of a Capstane , or upright Shaft , R O , drawn round by Horses , that the Weight may come up more expeditiously , though in the Figure the Handspikes , f , e , b , going in at such an Hole as d , show that Men may work it upon Occasion .
The same Gentleman having laid his Stone on Waggons of a peculiar Make , causes it to run down Hill about a Mile and an half , on a wooden Waggon-way ( which I shall hereafter describe with the Waggons , when I show the Society the Models , which are now making ) to the River-side , where he has a Wharf , and there by another Crane exactly suited to the Work , he takes the Stone from the Carriages , and with great Expedition lets it down into the Barges or Vessels that come to fetch it .
In describing this Crane of Mr. Allen 's , I shall show how Accidents are prevented in this Manner of working .
This Crane is of the Sort which is commonly called a Rat 's Tail Crane , Fig. 7 .
moving round a strong Post like a Wind-mill , so that it may turn quite round with all its Load .
The Axel B b , on which the Rope winds , is here horizontal like a Winch ; but to gain Strength , instead of the walking Wheel C A , it is carried round by a strong Wheel and Pinion , Fig. 5 and 6 ; or is in Effect a double Axis in Peritrochio .
Now in the common Cranes of this Kind , there is only a Catch ( as EK A , Fig. 5 .
) to hold the Burden at the Height it is brought up to , whilst the Crane is turned round in order to have the Weight lowered into the Vessels , which is done by lifting up the Catch , and being ready to let it down again as Need requires .
Sometimes an half Circumference of Wood ( D II B , Fig. 5 .
) is held hard against a wooden Wheel W w , on the Axel , to regulate and govern the Descent of the Weight .
But as in either of these Cases , if the Man at the Crane is careless , very bad Accidents happen , Mr. Padmore , Mr. Allen 's chief Work-man , has made such a Contrivance , that the Pall or Lever whereby the Axel is pressed to direct the descending Motion , does so communicate with the Catch , that in Case the Man that ought to manage it , shou 'd carelessly let it go , the Catch always takes , and thereby all Accidents are prevented ; as will be shown in the Explanation of the 5th and 6th Figures .
Where Goods are to be raised high , as in unloading Vessels , and also to be let down deep , as in loading them ; ( that is , where both the former Operations are to be performed ) if the Weights do not exceed two or three Ton , and many Hands are not to be had , then an endless Screw turned by an Handle at each End ( in an opposite Situation , or with one Handle and a Balance to it ) leading an Axis in Peritrochio , or as it is commonly called , a Worm and Wheel applied to a Crane , with a Gibbet , is most useful : For the Teeth of the Wheel are pulled by the Weight so directly against the Thread of the Worm in its Endeavour to descend , that one may leave the Handle in any Position where it will stop , without out any Catch , or the least Danger of the Weight falling back again .
But then , if you wou 'd have the Weight to be let down , to descend pretty quick , which cannot be performed by applying the Hand to the Handle , which goes through a great Space in Comparison to the Space described by the Weight ( without which sufficient Force would be wanting ) only give the Handle a Swing , and if the Worm be well oiled , the Handle and its Counterpoise , or the two Handles , will perform the Office of a Fly in the common Jack , turning very fast round , and regulating the Motion of the Weight , which from that Impulse will descend continually , and not too fast , like the Weight of a Jack .
The Way to stop this Motion at any Time , is to grasp the Axis of the Screw hard , betwixt the Screw and the Handle in its round Part .
The Hand is sufficient to do it , and will stop it in two or three Turns .
N , B. Such a Crane may be seen at Mr. Gray 's , who makes them to sell , at Mill-Bank , Westminster .
The worst Cranes are those where Men walk in a large Wheel , by reason of Accidents that happen daily on account of the short Space between a Man 's two Feet .
This may be prevented by using four footed Animals , the Length of whose Bodies makes a Base of sufficient Length to keep the Wheel from running back , Fig. 7 .
An Explanation of the Figures .
Fig. 1 .
Representing a fixed Crane with a Gibbet moving on an upright Shaft or Axis .
Aa Q , The Roof of the Crane to preserve the Rope RTr from the Weather , when the Arm of the Gibbet VGg being turned towards Y is brought under it .
A T , The upper Piece of the Crane , is an horizontal Situation , called the Plate of the Crane .
X , Y , Z , The three Crane Posts braced at Top and Bottom .
D S , M N , I E , Three Cills within the Stone Work , braced with Wood , and made fast with an upright Plate of Iron pinned to the Wood on each Side .
N. B. When the Crane is not in Stone Work , the three Cills must be all in one Piece , reaching from D to E. H I , h E , Are the Braces of the main Post of the Crane , which come up above the Level of the Wharf Lw B , which are longer and stronger than the others .
Here a cross Piece whose Section is ( &amp; ) keeps the main Post from twisting .
R O , The Capstane , or Shaft of the Crane to receive the Rope or Chain ; which Shaft is turned here by Bars or Handspikes , such as b d , f d , or e d , the lower Part being strengthened with Iron Hoops above and below the Holes at d , with a Pivot or Iron Axis turning in an Hole in a Piece whose Section is F. p p , Are two Pins , which hold on a Collar in which the upper Part of the Shaft turns .
C B , The Shaft or Axel of the Gibbet with Pivots and Iron Hoops at Top and Bottom , and a Wheel of Iron , y , having Teeth perpendicular to its Plane .
This Wheel is led by a Pinion , u , which is on the Axis of the Wheel x , by whose Arms a Man standing at H may bring about the End of the Gibbet g with the Ram-head r , and the Weight hanging at it , either to the Right or Left , and easily hold the Gibbet in any Position .
CTP Q , A strong Piece or Block having three Pullies , one vertical , and the other two horizontal , that the Rope may run over the First of them , and between the two others .
Fig. 2 .
Represents an horizontal Section of the Crane in its upper Part , or rather a View of it from the Plane of the Roof , supposing the Roof taken off .
N. B. The same Letters mark the Parts which have been described in Figure 1 .
Fig. 3 .
Show the Inconveniences in the Motion of the Gibbet .
LBE D , Represents Part of the Wharf next the Water , or Precipice of a Quarry .
TP Q , The Block-Piece which holds the three Pullies , expressed by the same Letters in Fig. 1 and 2 .
sgr G , The Arm of the Gibbet represented by V g , Fig. 1 .
T , The vertical Pulley .
P , Q , The horizontal Pullies , represented in another Situation by p , q , when their Centers from m , y , are brought to n and t. C , Is a Point directly over the Pivot of the Shaft , or Axel of the Gibbet .
C 1 , C 2 , C 3 , C 4 , C 5 , Represents a Line over the Arm of the Gibbet , or rather a Plane going through the Middle of it , in several of its Situations , when turned towards the right Hand , from its direct Position C r. C 6 , C 7 , C 8 , C o , Represent the several Situations of the Gibbet towards the Left , the last Pulley r , at the End of the Gibbet , immediately over the Weight traversing in the Circle 5 , 4 , 3 , 2 , 1 , 6 , 7 , 8 .
When the Gibbet is in the Position c g , the Rope runs directly over the Middle of its Arm , therefore the least Force applied to r or r , can keep in its Place the greatest Weight that can be drawn up by the Crane , when suspended to the Ram-head .
If the Pullies are at p and q , the Gibbet loaded will also be without Labour retained in the Position C2 on the Right , and C6 on the Left , and with no great Trouble in the Position C 1 .
But if the Gibbet be brought over the Wharf at 4 on the Right , or at 8 on the Left , the Rope~ will no longer run over the Middle of the Gibbet , but deviate from it , so as to make with it the Angle q4 t , or o8 n , and raise the Weight by the Motion of the Gibbet in Proportion as the Line q 4 , or o 8 , is longer than t 4 , or n 8 ; and therefore the Weight will tend to run back towards g in Proportion to the Difference of those Lines , which must give a Twitch to the Person who draws from r , or r by a guide Rope .
If to prevent this Inconveniency the Pulley at q be removed back to Q , then indeed the Rope will run over the Line C 4 , or t 4 , and consequently the Gibbet will be easily held in that Situation ; but if you have Occasion to move the Weight to 5 , the Rope touching the Pulley at t , will make an Angle with C 5 , and again be subject to the Inconveniency abovementioned .
Besides , in bringing the End of the Gibbet from g to 4 , the Rope immediately applying itself to the Pulley at t will come forward with a Jerk , though it will be twitched back again when at 5 .
If the Pulley be set backwarder still , as may be seen at P , when you wou 'd keep the Weight under 8 , it will tend to go on towards c , in Proportion as the Rope at m8 is now shorter than the Line n 8 ; for now the Weight descending a little , the Force of that Descent added to the Pull of him who draws the Guide Rope , will cause the Weight to swing towards the Crane , so as sometimes to do Mischief , if the Weight be very great , and the Men careless .
N. B. No Position of the Pullies can mend the Matter , there being only three Situations of the Gibbet in its whole Traverse , where it can keep its Place when loaded .
Therefore the Wheel , y , and the Wheel and pinion , x u , in Fig. 1 .
are of very considerable Use when great Weights are raised .
Fig. 4 .
represents the double Axis in Peritrochio , or Wheel and Pinion used instead of the walking Wheel of Fig. 7 .
c , c , An Axis with Handles having a Pinion P which leads the Wheel PR to wind the Rope RZ on the Axel R. K , A , Part of the Catch which stops the Rope from running back again .
W w , A wooden Wheel of some Thickness , which ( when the Catch is up ) is kept from turning too swift as the Weight runs down , by pulling up the Semicircular Part of the Pall IoI so as to make it bear hard against the Wheel below , to regulate or stop the Descent of the Weight .
C C , The Pivots or Centers of the Axel .
L F , Part of the Leaver , whereby the Pall is drawn up against the Wheel W w , by means of the Rope F B. Q , The Weight to bring down the Pall clear of the Wheel W w , when it is not pulled up .
IoI B , The End of the Pall which is applied to the Wheel , the other End not being represented here .
Fig. 5 .
Shows the Manner of letting down the Weight swifter or slower as there is Occasion , representing that End of the Axel on which the Catch and Pall act alternately .
PP and pp are two upright Pieces fixed to the Frame of the Crane , in any manner that is most convenient for carrying the three Centers L , K , and k. When the Rope RrZ going over a Pulley at r , or any where else , draws from the Axel in the Direction R r ; the Catch , if its End is at A , keeps it immovable .
But by pulling at H , the Leaver GF rises at F , and consequently draws up the End B of the Pall B D ; which moving on the Center k , does by its End D ( by means of the Bar D E ) pull down E , and raise A of the Catch , so as to let the Rope run down ; but to prevent its running too fast , one must pull a little harder ; then the Semicircle IoI will press against the Wheel , and slacken the Descent of the Weight ; which will be wholly stopped by pulling still harder : Then the Leaver , Pall , and Catch will be in the Position marked by pricked Lines and small Letters .
Now if the Person holding H , shou 'd carelessly let it go , the Weight Q in descending will bring down the Pall at B , and raise its other End , so as to throw the Catch in again upon the Teeth of the Ratchet , and stop the whole Motion without Accidents .
The 6th Figure represents the Wheel and Pinion at the other End of the Axis , where the same Letters express the same Parts .
The 7th Figure represents the Crane with the walking Wheel , the whole turning round upon the strong Post or Puncheon S , which is fixed steadily upright by Means of the Braces and Cills LLLL LLL L ; and when the Wheel and Pinion is used instead of the walking Wheel , all the other Parts are the same .
f F , Is a Brace and Ladder .
E , N , M , F , Pullies for the Rope to run over , and come to the Weight at H. N. B. Sometimes a Pair of Blocks is applied between F and H. A small wooden Roof also is applied over the Ends of the Pieces at E , N , M , and F.

