An Attempt to solve the Phenomenon of the Rise of Vapours , Formation of Clouds and Descent of Rain .
In a Letter from Dr. J. T. Desaguliers , L L. D. F. R. S. to Dr. Rutty , R. S. Secr. SIR , THE Reason of my writing upon a Subject which has been so often treated of , is , that none of the Accounts hitherto given of this Phenomenon ( at least that I have met with ) seem to me sufficient to solve all the Circumstances of it .
Dr. Niewentyt and some others say That Particles of Fire separated from the Sun-Beams , by adhering to Particles of Water , make up Moleculae , or small Bodies specifically lighter than Air , which therefore , by hydrostatical Laws , must rise and form Clouds that remain suspended when they are risen up to such an Height that the Air about them is of the same specific Gravity with themselves .
That Rain is produced by the Separation of the Particles of Fire from those of Water , which last being then restored to their former specific Gravity , can no longer be sustained by the Air , but must fall in Drops .
See Niewentyt 's Religious Philosopher .
Contemplation 19 .
From Sect. xiii .
to Sect. xxv .
Now this is liable to several Objections , First , It is built upon a Supposition that Fire is a particular Substance , or distinct Element , which has never yet been proved by convincing Experiments and sufficient Observations ; and which the Reverend Mr. Hales has in his late excellent Book of Vegetable Staticks shown to be an ill grounded Opinion , making it very plain , that in Chemical Operations those Bodies which had been thought to become heavier by Particles of Fire adhering to them , were only so by Adhesion of Particles of Air , &amp;c. which he has shown to be absorbed in great Quantities , by some Bodies , whilst it is generated ( or reduced from a fixed to an elastick State ) by others ; nay , that it may be absorbed and generated successiive by the same Body , under different Circumstances .
Secondly , If we should allow the above-mentioned Supposition , the Difficulty will still remain about the Production of Rain by the Separation of the Fire from the Water ; For Dr. Niewentyt ascribes this Effect to two different Causes .
First , to Condensation ( Sect. xxiii .
) Saying , ` ` That when contrary Winds blow against the same Cloud and drive the watery Particles together , the Fire that adhered to them gets loose , and they ( becoming then specifically heavier ) precipitate and fall down in Rain ' ' .
Then in the very next Sect. he ascribes it to Rarefaction , when he says , ` ` That when a Wind blowing obliquely upwards causes a Cloud to rise into a thinner Air ( i. e. specifically lighter than it self ) the Fire which by sticking to the Particles of Water rendered them lighter , extricates it self from them , and ascending by its Lightness , the Water will become too heavy , not only to remain in this thin and light Air , but even in a thicker and heavier near the Earth , and so will be turned into a descending Dew , Mist , or Rain , or Snow , or the like , according as the watery Vapours are either rarefied or compressed ' ' .
The first of these Causes of Rain is contrary to Experience ; for when two contrary Winds blow against each other over any Place of the Earth , the Barometer always rises , and we have fair Weather .
For then ( as Dr. Halley says , in Philosophical Trans. No. 183 ) the Air being accumulated above , becomes specifically heavier about the Clouds , which ( instead of falling into Rain , as Dr. Niewentyt supposes ) ascend up into such a Part of the Atmosphere , as has the Air of the same specific Gravity with themselves .
If the falling of Rain might be attributed to the second of these Causes , then every time a Cloud is encompassed with Air specifically lighter than it self ( whether it be when by the blowing away some of the superior Air , that which is about the Cloud becomes rarer as it is less compressed , or by the Cloud being driven upwards ) Rain must necessarily follow ; whereas one may often see the Clouds rise and fall without Rain , even when the Barometer shows the Weight of the Air to be altered .
For that happens only when by the great Diminution of the specific Gravity of the Air about the Cloud , it has a great Way to fall ; in which Case , the Resistance of the Air , which increases as the Square of the Velocity of the descending Cloud , causes the floating Particles of Water to come within the Power of each others Attraction , and form such big Drops , as being specifically heavier than any Air , must fall in Rain .
No gentle Descent of a Cloud , but only an accelerated Motion downwards , produces Rain .
N. B. I do n't mean that the quick Descent of a Cloud is the only Cause of Rain ; because the Shock from a Flash of Lightning , and the sudden return of the Air , after the Vacuum made by the Flash , will condense the floating Vapour into Water ; and also the same Cloud which in the free Air , might be carried horizontally without being turned into Rain , meeting with an high Hill in its Way , will be condensed and fall in Drops ; especially if , in the Day-time , it be driven by the Wind out of the Sunshine , against the shaded Side of the Mountain .
Besides all this , if Particles of Fire were joined with those of Water to raise them up , those igneous Particles must be at least 1000 Times greater in Bulk than the watery ones ; so that a Person , who at the Top of a Hill , has his Hands and Face in a Cloud , must feel a very sensible Warmth , by touching a much greater Surface of Fire than Water in the Cloud , and afterwards find the Rain produced from that Vapour sensibly colder ; whereas the contrary is proved by our Senses ; the Tops of Hills , though in the Clouds , being much colder than the Rain at Bottom .
There is another Opinion concerning the Rise of Vapours , namely , that tho ' Water be specifically heavier than Air , yet if its Surface be increased by very much diminishing the Bulk of its Particles , when once raised , it cannot easily fall ; because the Weight of each Particle diminishes as the Cube Root of its Diameter , and the Surface to which the Air resists , only as the Square Root of the said Diameter : That we see this in the Dust in Summer , and in Menstruums that sustain Metals dissolved , which are specifically heavier than the Menstruums .
But this will not explain the Phenomenon ; because though the Increase of Surface ( the Weight remaining the same ) will in a great Measure hinder ( or rather retard ) the Descent of small Bodies moving in the Air , by reason of its great Resistance to so large a Surface ; it will for the same Reason also hinder the Ascent .
For the Rise of Dust is owing to the Motion of Animals Feet in it , or to the Wind : Whereas Vapours rise in calm Weather , as well as windy ; neither do they , like the Dust , always fall to the Ground when the Wind ceases to blow .
The third Opinion , and which is most commonly received , is , that by the Action of the Sun on the Water , small Particles of Water are formed into hollow Spherules filled with an Aura , or finer Air highly rarefied , so as to become specifically lighter than common Air , and consequently that they must rise in it by hydrostatical Laws .
As for Example , If a Particle of Water , as it becomes a hollow Sphere , be only increased ten Times in Diameter , its Bulk will be increased a thousand Times ; therefore fore it will then be specifically lighter than common Water , whose specific Gravity is to that of Air , as 850 to 1 ; then if the Density of the Aura , or Spirit within the little Shell , be supposed 9 Times less than that of Air , or as 50 to 850 , that specific Gravity of the Shell , and its Contents will be to that of Air , as 900 to 1000 ; therefore such an aqueous Bubble must rise till it comes to an AEquilibrium in Air , whose Density is to the Density of that in which it began to rise , as 850 to 945 nearly .
But it appears by Experiments , that Air rarefied by an Heat which makes a Retort red hot , is only increased in Bulk , or dilated 3 Times ; by the Heat of boiling Water only 10/ 14 or near two Thirds ; and by the Heat of the Humane Body ( such as will raise Vapours plentifully ) only 10/ 39 or about 1/ 4 .
I own my Objection may be answered , by supposing the Spherule of Water to be more increased in Diameter , as for Example 20 Times ; because then if it be filled with Air only 1/ 4 rarer than common Air , it will be specifically lighter , and capable of rising to a considerable Height .
To give this Solution all its Force , let us express it in Numbers .
Let A and W ( Fig. 1 .
) represent Fig. 1 .
Bulk = J. Bulk = J. A. 0 W. 0 Weight = J. Weight = 850 .
Bulk = 8000 .
Bulk = 8000 .
awe Weight = 8000 .
Weight = 850 .
a Particle of Air , and one of Water of equal Bulk ' then will the Weight of A be to the Weight of W as 1 to 850 , their Bulks being equal .
If the Particle of Water be blown up into a Bubble ( w ) of 20 Times its Diameter , then will its Bulk be to its Weight , as 8000 to 850 , whilst a Sphere of Air ( a ) of the same Bigness , has its Weight as well as Bulk equal to 8000 : Now if an Air or Aura 1/ 4 rarer than common Air be supposed within the watery Bubble to keep it blown , it will be the same as if 3/ 4 of the Air of ( a ) was carried into ( w ) and then the Weight of ( w ) would be increased by the Number 6000 ; so that the Shell of Water being in Bulk 8000 , would be in Weight 850 + 6000 = 6850 , whilst an equal Bulk of Air weighed 8000 , and consequently the watery Bubble would rise till it came to an Air , whose Density is to the Density of the Air next to the Surface of the exhaling Water as 6850 to 8000 .
This is the strongest Way of stating the Hypothesis .
But to support it , the following Queries must be answered .
Query 1st , How comes the Aura , or Air in the Bubbles , to be specifically lighter than the Air without them , since the Sun 's Rays , which act upon the Water , are equally dense all over its Surface ?
Query 2d , If it could be possible for a rarer Air to be separated from the denser ambient Air , to blow up the Bubbles ( as Bubbles of soaped Water are blown up by warm Air from the Lungs , whilst the ambient Air is colder and denser ) what would hinder that cold Air by its greater Pressure , from reducing the Bubbles to a less Bulk , and greater specific Gravity than the Air , especially since Cold can be communicated through such thin Shells , and the Tenacity of common Water is very small when compared to that of soaped Water ( whose Bubbles , notwithstanding that Tenacity ) are soon destroyed by the Pressure of the outward Air , as the Air within them cools ?
Query 3d , If we should grant all the rest of the Supposition , yet this Difficulty will remain .
If Clouds are made up of hollow Shells of Water filled with Air , why do not those Clouds always expand when the ambient Air is rarefied , and presses less than it did before , and also suffer a Condensation , as the ambient Air is condensed by the Accumulation of the superior Air ?
If this Condensation and Rarefaction should happen to the Clouds , they would always continue at the same Height , contrary to Observation ; and we shou 'd never have any Rain .
From all this it follows , that the Condensation and Rarefaction of the Vapours , which make Clouds , must depend upon another Principle than the Condensation and Rarefaction of the Air : And that there is such a Principle , I shall endeavour to show .
LEMM A. The Particles of all Fluids have a repellent Force .
FLUIDS are elastick or unelastick : The elastick Fluids have their Density proportionable to their Compression , and Sir Isaac Newton has demonstrated ( Princip .
Lib. ii .
Sect. v. ) that they consist of Parts that repel each other from their respective Centers .
Unelastick Fluids , like Mercury , Water and other Liquors , are by Experiments found to be incompressible ; for Water in the Florentine Experiment could not by any Force be compressed into less Room , but ooz 'd like Dew through the Pores of the hollow golden Ball in which it was confined , when a Force was applied to press the Ball out of its spherical , into a less capacious Figure .
Now this Property of Water and other Liquors must be entirely owing to the centrifugal Force of its Parts , and not its want of Vacuity ; since Salts may be imbibed by Water without increasing its Bulk , as appears by the Increase of its specific Gravity .
So Metals , which ( singly ) have a certain specific Gravity beyond which they cannot be condensed , will yet receive each other in their Interstices so as to make a Compound specifically heavier than the heaviest of them ; as is experienced in the Mixture of Copper and Tin .
SCHOLIU M. By increasing the repellent Force of the Particles , an unelastick or incompressible Fluid may become elastick , or a Solid ( at least a great Part of it ) may be changed into an elastick Fluid ; and , vice versa , by diminishing the repellent Force , an elastick Fluid may be reduced to an unelastick Fluid , or to a Solid .
That the Particles of Quicksilver , Water and other Liquors are likewise endued with an attractive Force , is evident from those Substances running into Drops in an exhausted Receiver , as well as in the Air , and likewise their adhering to other Bodies .
The Attraction and Repulsion exert their Forces differently : The Attraction only acts upon the Particles , which are in Contact , or very near it ; in which Case it overcomes the Repulsion so far , as to render that Fluid unelastick , which otherwise would be so ; but it does not wholly destroy the Repulsion of the Parts of the Fluid , because it is on Account of that Repulsion that the Fluid is then incompressible .
When by Heat or Fermentation ( or any other Cause , if there be any ) the Particles are separated from their Contact , the Repulsion grows stronger , and the Particles exert that Force at great Distances , so that the same Body shall be expanded into a very large Space by becoming fluid , and may sometimes take up more than a Million of Times more Room than it did in a solid or incompressible Fluid .
( See the Queries at the End of Sir Issac Newton 's Opticks .
) Thus is Water by boiling , and less Degrees of Heat , changed into an elastick Vapour rare enough to rise in Air , Oils and Quicksilver in Distillation made to rise in a very rare Medium , such as remains in the red-hot Retort , and sulphureous Steams will rise even in an exhausted Receiver , as the Matter of the Aurora Borealis does in the thinner Part of our Atmosphere .
If Aqua-fortis be poured on Quicksilver , a reddish Fume will rise much lighter than common Air ; so also will Fumes rise from Filings of Metals , from Vegetables when they ferment by Putrefaction ; and ( as the Reverend Mr. Hales has shown ) several solid Substances by distilling , as well as Fermentation , will generate permanent Air .
That Heat will add Elasticity to Fluids is evident from numberless Experiments , especially from Distilling and Chemistry : But what is needful to consider here is only , that it acts more powerfully on Water than common Air ; for the same Heat which rarefies Air only 2/ 3 will rarefy Water very near 14000 times , changing it into Steam or Vapour as it boils it : And in Winter , that small Degree of Heat , which in Respect to our Bodies appears cold , will raise a Steam or Vapour from Water at the same Time that it condenses Air .
By a great many Observations made by Mr. Henry Beighton , F. R. S. and my self , upon the Engine to raise Water by Fire , according to Mr. Newcomen 's Improvement of it ; we found that the Water in boiling is expanded 14000 times to generate a Steam as strong ( i. e. as elastick ) as common Air , which therefore must be near 161/ 2 times specifically cifically lighter .
And that this Steam is not made of the Air extricated out of the Water is plain , because it is condensed again into Water by a Jet of cold Water spouting in it ; and the little Quantity of Air that comes out of the injected Water must be discharged at every Stroke , otherwise the Engine will not work well .
There is also another Experiment to confirm this .
EXPERIMEN T. ABCD is a pretty large Vessel of Water , which must be set upon the Fire to boil .
In this Vessel must be suspended the glass Bell E , made heavy enough to sink in Water ; but put in , in such a Manner that it be filled with Water when upright , without any Bubbles of Air at its Crown within , the Crown being all under Water .
As the Water boils , the Bell will by Degrees be emptied of its Water , being pressed down by the Steam which rises above the Water in the Bell ; but as that Steam has the Appearance of Air , in order to know whether it be Air or not , take the Vessel off the Fire , and draw up the Bell by a String fastened to its Knob at Top , till only the Mouth remains under Water ; then , as the Steam condenses by the cold Air on the outside of the Bell , the Water will rise up into the Bell at F quite to the Top , without any Bubble above it , which shows that the Steam which kept out the Water was not Air .
N. B. This Experiment succeeds best when the Water has been first purged of Air by boiling , and the Air-Pump .
We know by several Experiments made on the Fire-Engine ( in Captain Savery 's Way , where the Steam is made to press immediately on the Water ) that Steam will drive away Air , and that in Proportion to its Heat ; though in the open Air it floats and rises in it like Smoke .
Now if the Particles of Water turned into Steam or Vapour repel each other strongly , and repel Air more than they repel each other ; Aggregates of such Particles made up of Vapour and Vacuity may rise in Air of different Densities , according to their own Density dependant on their Degree of Heat , without having Recourse to imaginary Bubbles formed in a Manner only supposed , and not proved , as we have already shown .
I own indeed , that if the watery Particles had no repellent Force , they must precipitate in the same Manner that Dust will do after it has been raised up ; but we have too many Observations and Experiments to leave any Doubt of the Existence of the repellent Force above-mentioned .
Neither can I show by any Experiment , how big the Moleculae of Vapour must be which exclude Air from their Interstices , and whether those Moleculae do vary in Proportion to the Degree of Heat by an Increase of repellent Force in each watery Particle , or by a farther Division of the Particles into other Particles still less ; but in general we may reasonably affirm , that the Rarity of the Vapour is proportionable to the Degree of its Heat , as it happens in other Fluids ( See Phil. Transact. Numb. 270 .
) and that , though the different Degrees of the Air 's Rarefaction are also proportionable to the Heat ; the same Degree of Heat rarefies Vapour much more than Air .
Now to show , that what has been said will account for the Rise of Vapours and Formation of Clouds , we must only consider ; whether that Degree of Heat , which is known to rarefy Water 14000 * Times , being compared with several of those Degrees of Heat in Summer , Autumn and Winter , which are capable of raising Exhalations from Water or Ice ; the Rarity of the Vapours ( estimated by the Degree of Heat ) will appear to be such , that the Vapour will rise high enough in Winter , and not too high in Summer , to agree with the known Phenomenon .
That the Effects are adequate to the Causes in this Case , I think I can make out in the following Manner , viz. The Heat of boiling Water , according to Sir Isaac Newton 's Table ( Phil. Transact. Num. 270 ) is 34 , the mean Heat of Summer 5 , the mean Heat of Spring or Autumn 3 , and the least Degree of Heat , at which Vapours rise in Winter ( alias the mean Heat of Winter ) is 2 .
The Rarity of Vapour proportionable to these four Degrees of Heat , is 14000 , 2058 , 1235 , and 823 .
The Rarity of Air is , in Summer 900 , in Spring or Autumn 850 , and in Winter 800 , the Density of Water compared with the abovementioned Densities , being inversely as One to the said fore-mentioned four Numbers .
The Heights above the Earth to which the Vapours will rise , and at which they will be in aequilibrio , in an Air of the same Density with themselves , will vary according to the Rarity of the Vapour depending on the Heat of the Sea* As the Digression wou 'd be too long to mention here those Observations on the Fire-Engine , which show that the Vapour from boiling Water is expanded 14000 Times more than cold Water ; I refer the Reader to the 6th Section of 25th Contemplation of Niewentyt 's Religious Philosopher , where he proves by an Experiment made with an AEolipile , that one Inch of Water produces 13365 Inches of Vapour ; which , considering the great Allowances made against the Assertion , may well be called 14000 .
son .
For the Vapour which is raised by the Winter 's Heat , expressed by the Number 2 , when the Air 's Rarity is 800 , will rise to ( and settle at ) an Height of about the Sixth of a Mile , when the Barometer is above 30 Inches high .
But if the Heat be greater then , the Vapours will rise higher , and pretty much higher if the Sun shines , though in frosty Weather , the Barometer being then very high .
If the Barometer falls , and thereby brings the Place of AEquilibrium ( for Vapours raised by the Heat 2 ) nearer the Earth , then also will the Heat be increased , the Vapour more rarefied , and consequently the new Place of AEquilibrium sufficiently high .
It is to be observed , that in Winter , when the Heat is only equal to 2 , the Air is densest close to the Earth , which has not any Heat sufficient to rarefy it near the Ground , as happens in warm Weather ; therefore the Vapour will rise gradually in an Air whose Density decreases continually from the Earth upwards ; neither will the Vapour be hindered of its full Rise , by any Condensation from a greater Cold of the ambient Air , the Air being then as cold next to the Ground where the Vapour begins to rise , as it is at any Heighth from the Earth .
The Vapour which is raised by the Heat of Spring or Autumn expressed by Number 3 , will rise to the Height of 31/ 2 Miles , when the Barometer is at 30 , and the Air 's Rarity is 850 .
But then , as the Air is hotter nearer the Ground than at the Height of half a Mile or a Mile , the Vapour will condense as it rises ; and as the Air , when the Earth is heated , is rarer near the Ground than at some Height from it , the Place of AEquilibrium for Vapour will , upon these two Accounts , be brought much lower than otherwise it would be ; as for Example , to the Height of about a Mile , which will agree with Phenomenon .
In Summer , the two Causes above-mentioned increasing , the Vapour raised by the Heat 5 ( whose Place of AEquilibrium would be 51/ 2 Miles high , if the Vapour after it began to rise was not condensed by cooling , and the Air was densest close to the Earth ) will settle at the Height of about 1 1/ 2 or 2 Miles , which is also agreeable to Phenomenon .
Lastly , As the Density and Rarity of the Vapour is chiefly owing to its Degree of Heat , and in a small Measure to the increased or diminished Pressure of the circumambient Air , when it is not confined ; and the Density and Rarity of the Air is chiefly owing to the increased or diminished Pressure , by the Accumulation or Exhaustion of superior Air , whilst Heat and Cold alter its Density in a much less Proportion ; the Clouds made of the Vapours above-mentioned , instead of conforming themselves to the altered Density of the ambient Air , will rise when it is condensed , and sink when it is rarefied ; and also rise or sink ( when the Pressure of the Air is not altered , and its Density very little changed ) by their own Dilatation , owing to Heat or Cold ; as may be observed often , by seeing them change their Height considerably , whilst the Barometer continues exactly at the same Degree , and the Thermometer 's Liquor rises or falls very little , and sometimes not at all .
As for the Manner how Clouds are changed into Rain , I have hinted it in the Beginning of this Paper ; but for farther Satisfaction , I refer the Reader to Dr. Halley 's Account of it , in the Philosophical Transactions ( Numb. 183 .
) in which I entirely acquiesce , having always found it agreeable to the Phenomenon .
If by publishing these Thoughts , I have explained the Rise of Vapours , in a more satisfactory Way than has been done before ; or if I have only given useful Hints to others more capable of doing it , I have my End .
P. S. Since I have , for Brevity sake , only mentioned at what Heights from the Surface of the Earth , Vapours of different Densities will come to an AEquilibrium , without giving a Reason for settling the Place of AEquilibrium , at those Heights ; I think proper to give the Method here by which they are to be found , viz. As the Vapours will settle and rise where the Air is of the same Density with themselves ; it is only required to find the Density of the Air at any Distance from the Earth , at several Heights of the Barometer , which may be deduced from Dr. Halley 's two Tables , Philosoph. Transact. Num. 386 .
( the First showing the Altitude to given Heights of the Mercury , and the Second the Heights of the Mercury at given Altitudes ) and knowing the Degree of Heat by the Thermometer , because the Density of the Vapour depends upon the Degree of Heat of the Season ; provided that proper Allowances be made for the great Rarefaction of the Air near the Earth in hot and dry Weather , and the Condensation of the Vapours in their Rise , by reason of the Air being colder at a little Height above the Earth than just at the Surface of it .

