Some further Observations concerning Electricity , by J. T. Desaguliers , LL. D. F. R. S. Dec. 14 .
1741 .
ELectrics per se ( which I have heretofore defined , Bodies in which an Electrical Virtue may be raised by some Action on them , such as Rubbing , Patting , Warming , &amp;c. ) are reduced to a Non-electric State by being in Contact with Non-electric Bodies , especially Water , which is the greatest Non-electric , even when it becomes Vapour .
Read Jan. 14 .
1741-2 .
A Non-electric ( which though it cannot be made Electrical by any Action upon it ) receives Electricity from an excited Electrical Body ; but does not retain it whilst it touches any other Non-electrical Body .
An Electric per se , when it is become Non-electrical , differs from the Non-electric per se in this ; that it may be so restored to Electricity , by applying a rubbed Tube to it , as to repel all other Electrics of the same kind of Electricity as the Tube ; till it meets with some Non-electric Body , which brings it back to Non-electricity , or at least to such a languid State , that its Electricity is scarce perceptible .
The Electricity may be also restored in the same manner by Wax , &amp;c. But in both Cases , an Electric Body , in a languid State , cannot be restored to Electricity whilst it adheres to a Non-electric per se .
EXPERIMENTS to illustrate these Assertions .
From an horizontal Cat-gut ( which is an Electric per se , as most Animal Substances are ) I suspended two Feathers , the one by a Thread , and the other by a Silk , about two Foot long each : Then applying the rubbed Tube to the Feather hanging by the Silk , ( which Silk is an Electric per se ) the Feather came to the Tube , and stuck to it , as all Non-electric Bodies do , till it was so impregnated with the Virtue from the Tube , as to come out of its languid State , and become strongly Electrical ; which appeared by its flying from the Tube , and being repelled as often as the Tube was brought near it ; till it had touched some Non-electric Body , or was left so long as to imbibe the moist Particles floating in the Air ; by which it became Non-electric , and was again attracted by the Tube .
When I applied the Tube to the other Feather that hung by the Thread , ( which , like most vegetable Substances , is generally Non-electric per se ) the Feather was constantly attracted , and never repelled ; because the Virtue communicated from the Tube to the Feather , lost itself along the Thread ; which would have been retained by the Feather , if it had floated in dry Air , or been suspended by an Electrical Body .
These Properties of Electric Bodies show the Reason of that Phenomenon , whereby a rubbed Tube , after having attracted a Feather , repels and chases it about a Room in the Air , and does not attract it a second time , till the Feather has touched some other Body ; and also shows the Reason why the Experiment does not succeed in moist Weather .
Pure Air , that is dry , may be ranked among the Electrics per se , because it repels all Bodies in a State of Electricity , whether they have been excited to it by Wax or Glass ; that is , by either of the two sorts of Electricity .
Watery Vapours , that float in the Air , are Nonelectric ; from which Mixture the Air becomes more languid in its Electricity , when most impregnated with Vapours ; so that dry Air is more Electric than moist ; but cold Air in frosty Weather , when Vapours rise least of all , is more electric than Air in Summer , when the Heat raises Vapours ; which renders that State of the Air more fit for making Electrical Experiments .
The rubbed Tube retains its Electricity a long time , because it repels , and is repelled by , the dry Air ; and the Feather , which has been attracted by the Tube , after adhering to it a while , is raised out of its languid State to a strong Electricity ; whereby it flies from the Tube , repels and is repelled by the Air , where meeting with very few Vapours , it retains its Electricity a long time ; till touching a Non-electric , that is brought to it , it loses its own Electricity by communicating it , becomes a Non-electric , and is reattracted by the Tube , to which adhering some time , it receives so much Virtue from the Tube , as to be restored to its Electricity , and again repelled .
In a moist State of the Air , the Feather , after it has been made electrical , and repelled by the Tube , it attracts to it the moist Vapours floating in the Air ; whereby losing its Electricity , it is attracted by the Tube , without touching any other Body first .
Sometimes , when the Feather flies off from one Part of the Tube , it immediately returns to another Part , generally the Top of the Tube , because the Top of the Tube has attracted the moist Vapours , and is become a Non-electric , and therefore attracts the Feather ; which being become electric , flew off from the electric Part of the Tube .
That this is true , appears from an Experiment to be made in dry Weather .
At that Time , when every Part of the Tube repels the Feather strongly , after having attracted it , if you wet two or three Inches of the upper End of the Tube , the Feather will come to that End .
Wetting the Silk by which the Feather hangs from the Cat-gut , the Feather will be always attracted , and not repelled .
When the Silk is dry , the Feather once made electrical , so as to be repelled by the Tube , retained that Virtue above two Hours in frosty Weather ; but in moist Weather lost it in half a Minute .

