VIII .
EXPERIMENTS made before the ROYALSOCIET Y , Feb. 2 .
1737-8 .
by J. T. Desaguliers , LL. D. F. R. S. N. B. IN the following Account , which is the Sequel of former Experiments , I call Conductors those Strings , to one End of which the rubbed Tube is applied ; and Supporters such horizontal Bodies as the Conductor rests upon .
EXPERIMENT I. Old Packthread Supporters transmitted Electricity but weakly , though more strongly when twisted with Cat-gut ; but new Packthread did better .
N. B. Where it is not mentioned otherwise , an I vory Ball hangs at the End of the Conductor ; and its Electricity is tried by a Thread applied near it .
EXPERIMENT II .
A Conducting String of Cat-gut received the Electricity a little way ; but did not carry it quite to the Tube .
EXPERIMENT III .
Two conducting Strings , one of Cat-gut , and one of Packthread , compared , the first attracted less and less , as the Distance from the Tube increased ; and the other more and more , till it was strongest at the suspended Body : But both ceased immediately after the Removal of the Tube .
EXPERIMENT IV .
A Sealing-Wax Supporter transmitted the Electricity , but did receive little or none when suspended .
If it was but just rubbed with the Hand , it attracted the Thread when first suspended ; and strongly , if much rubbed ; but that Virtue was soon lost , if the Tube was applied to the conducting String , and then it would receive no more Electricity from the Tube .
If the Stick of Wax was wet , then it would strongly receive the Electricity .
A Wax Supporter wet , and Silk String wet , did not transmit the Electricity .
EXPERIMENT V. Dired Ox-Guts did not transmit Electricity when held in Hand ; but when tied to Cat-gut , transmitted it ; and , when suspended , received it plentifully .
EXPERIMENT VI .
The same with a small Cord .
EXPERIMENT VII .
The same with a Rod of Iron , and Tube of Brass .
EXPERIMENT VIII .
A Glass Tube , made Conductor , received the Electricity but a little way .
EXPERIMENT IX .
Dry Sheep-Skin transmitted the Electricity , but not when wet , though it received it then when suspended .
EXPERIMENT X. A middle Supporter of Packthread was again supported on one Side by a Glass Tube , and on the other by Sealing-Wax , and had at each End an Ivory Ball hanging .
Those Balls became electrical in the same manner , and at the same time , as the Ball at the End of the conducting Spring .
EXPERIMENT XI .
When a Bar of Oak was made use of instead of the Tube , or a small Iron Bar instead of the Wax , the Electricity was stopped : But if the Bar was thrust a little way into a Glass Tube , the Electricity was communicated as before .
EXPERIMENTS made at the ROYAL SOCIET Y , Feb. 9 .
1737-8 .
I fixed six Iron Radii of twisted Iron Wire to a Brass Ring of two Foot and an half Diameter , and half an Inch wide , which had a Socket in the Centre , whereby to set it either on an upright Glass Tube , or on a wooden Pillar : Then I hung upon the End of the six Radii , next to the Circumference , the following Substances .
1 .
A Piece of Resin .
2 .
A Stick of Wax .
3 .
An Apple .
4 .
An Ivory Ball 5 .
A Steel Ball .
6 .
A Glass Ball .
EXPERIMENTS I. and II .
I rubbed the Tube , and applied it to the Centre of this Machine , as it stood on a Glass Tube ; and the Electricity was communicated to all the suspended Bodies , and the Ring also ; but none of them received it , when the Machine stood upon a wooden Pillar , whose Foot was on the Floor .
EXPERIMENT III .
I tied to the Ends of the six Radii as many Cat-gut Strings , but so long as to unite together about a Foot higher than the Centre of the Ring , where I suspended them by another Cat-gut String three Foot long , the Top of which was sasten 'd to an hempen Rope .
Then applying the rubbed Tube very near the Place where all the Cat-gut Strings joined over the Ring , ( at which Ring the same Bodies were suspended as before ) neither the Bodies nor Ring received any Electricity .
N. B. This was done in foul Weather , when the Electricity does not extend itself far from the Tube : But in fair Weather , the Electrical Virtue , at the same Distance , reached the Iron Radii of the Ring ; and consequently the Ring and Bodies suspended , though the Virtue was not propagated along the Cat-gut : For if the Tube was applied a little higher to the single Cat-gut , so as the Effluvia , or Vittue darted directly from the Tube , did not reach the Ring , or its Iron Radii , then no Virtue was communicated to the Ring , or the suspended Bodies , &amp;c. EXPERIMENT IV .
I suspended the Ring by six Packthreads , just in the same manner as the Cat-gut Strings before ; but still all those Strings were suspended by the perpendicular Cat-gut of three Foot in Length .
Then all the Bodies received the Electricity from the rubbed Tube applied to the Top of the Pyramid of Packthreads .
EXPERIMENT V. Instead of the perpendicular Cat-gut between the Pyramid of Packthread and the upper hempen String , I substituted a Packthread ; and then no Virtue was communicated to the Ring , but all went up the hempen String , and was lost ; except the Tube was held very near the Ring , and then it gave a small Degree of electrical Attraction to the Ring , and the Bodies suspended at it .
EXPERIMENT VI .
Having again suspended the Ring with the Bodies and Pyramid of Packthreads to the perpendicular Cat-gut , I tied a Packthread to the Ring , and carried it horizontally about 20 Feet from the Ring ; and having fastened a Cat-gut String three Foot long to it , I gave it an Assistant to hold : Then applying the rubbed Tube to the End joining that Cat-gut , the Electricity was communicated to the Ring , and all the suspended Bodies , as appeared by applying the white Thread near them , which was attracted by every Part of the Ring , and all the Bodies .
EXPERIMENTS made before the ROYAL SOCIET Y , Feb. 16 .
1737-8 .
EXPERIMENT I. I applied the rubbed Tube to a burning Candle , and it had no manner of Effect on the Flame ; but as soon as the Candle was blown out , it attracted the Smoke at four or five Inches Distance .
EXPERIMENT II .
An horizontal Packthread , of about 18 Feet in Length , being terminated by the Cat-gut Strings , of three Foot long each , I hung ( towards one of the Ends of the Packthread ) upon it a Candlestick with a lighted Candle in it ; then applying the rubbed Tube to the other End of the Packthread , the Candlestick attracted the Thread , and it was also attracted by the Candle , but not within two or three Inches of the Flame ; but as soon as the Candle was blown out , the Thread was attracted by every Part of it ; nay , even the Wick , when it was quite extinguished .
EXPERIMENT III .
I suspended a Wax Candle in the same manner , and the Experiment succeeded in the same manner ; only the Electricity came not so near the Flame in the Wax as in the Tallow Candle .
EXPERIMENT IV .
I hung an Iron Wire 16 Foot long horizontally by two Cat-gut Strings at its Ends about three Foot long each , and bent down the Wire from the Place joined to the Cat-gut , so as to hang down a Foot at one End ; then applying the rubbed Tube at the other End , this Conductor carried the Electricity along to the Ball ; but not so well as the Packthread Conductor ; but it did something better when it was wet .
The same happened when the Conductor was Brass Wire of the same Length .
N. B. The Packthread Conductor also carried the Effluvia stronger when it was wet .

