Philo : Trans : No. 409 .
Fig. 1 .
636 54321~12D45L AB C W 4 x k G ~ l FE ~G Fig. 2 .
Ck 654321123456 AB D h W E P4~ F GH G b M S IV A Proposition on the Balance , not taken Notice of by Mechanical Writers , explain d and confirmed by an Experiment before the Royal Society , by J. T. DESAGULIER S , L. L. D. F. R. S. TH O ' the following Theorem is agreeable to , and deducible from , Mechanical Principles , yet as it has not been taken Notice of by Mechanical Writers , though often talked of among Handicraft Workmen , I thought it might not be improper to take Notice of it here , and to make an Experiment agreeable to the Demonstration .
THEORE M , Figure 1 .
AB is a Balance , on which is supposed to hang at one End B the Scale E with a Man in it , who is counterpoised by the Weight W hanging at A , the other End of the Balance .
I say , that if such a Man , with a Cane or any rigid straight Body , pushes upwards against the Beam any where between the Points C and B ( provided he does not push directly against B ) he will thereby make himself heavier , or over-poise the Weight W , though the Stop GG hinders the Scale E from being thrust outwards fromwards C towards G G. I say likewise , That if the Scale and Man should hang from D , the Man by pushing upwards against B , or any where between B and D ( provided he does not push directly against D ) will make himself lighter , or be over-poised by the Weight W , which did before only counterpoise the Weight of his Body and the Scale .
If the common Center of Gravity of the Scale E , and the Man supposed to stand in it be at k , and the Man by thrusting against any Part of the Beam , cause the Scale to move outwards so as to carry the said common Center of Gravity to k x , then instead of B E , Ll will become the Line of Direction of the compound Weight , whose Action will be increased in the Ratio of LC to B C. This is what has been explained by several Writers of Mechanicks ; but no one , that I know of , has considered the Case when the Scale is kept from flying out , as here by the Post G G , which keeps it in its Place , as if the Strings of the Scale were become inflexible .
Now to explain this Case , let us suppose the Length BD of half of the Brachium BC to be equal to 3 Feet , the Line BE to 4 Feet , the Line ED of 5 Feet to be the Direction in which the Man pushes , DF and FE to be respectively equal and parallel to BE and B D , and the whole or absolute Force with which the Man pushes , equal to ( or able to raise ) 10 Stone .
Let the oblique Force ED ( = 10 Stone ) be resolved into the two OF and E B , ( or its Equal F D ) whose Directions are at right Angles to each other , and whose respective Quantities ( or Intensities ) are as 6 and 8 , because OF and BE are in that Proportion to each other , and to E D. Now since OF is parallel to BDC A , the Beam , it does no way affect the Beam to move it upwards ; and therefore there is only the Force represented by F D , or 8 Stone to push the Beam upwards at D. For the same Reason , and because Action and Reaction are equal , the Scale will be pushed down at E with the Force of 8 Stone also .
Now since the Force at E pulls the Beam perpendicularly downwards from the Point B , distant from C the whole Length of the Brachium B D , its Action downwards will not be diminished , but may be expressed by 8xB C : Whereas the Action upwards against D will be half lost , by reason of the diminished Distance from the Center , and is only to be expressed by 8xB C/ 2 ; and when the Action upwards to raise the Beam is substracted from the Action downwards to depress it , there will still remain 4 Stone to push down the Scale ; because 8xBC8xB C/ 2 =4B C. Consequently a Weight of 4 Stone must be added at the End A to restore the AEquilibrium .
Therefore a Man , &amp;c. pushing upwards under the Beam between B and D , becomes heavier .
Q. E. D. On the contrary , if the Scale should hang at F from the Point D , only 3 Feet from the Center of Motion C , and a Post gg hinders the Scale from being pushed inwards towards C , then if a Man in this Scale F pushes obliquely against B with the oblique Force above-mention 'd ; the whole Force , for the Reasons before given ( in resolving the oblique Force into two others acting in Lines perpendicular to each other ) will be reduced to 8 Stone , which pushes the Beam directly upwards at B , while the same Force of 8 Stone draws it directly down at D towards F. But as CD is only equal to half of C B , the Force at D compared with that at B , loses half its Action , and therefore can only take off the Force of 4 Stone from the Push upwards at B ; and consequently the Weight W at A will preponde2 rate , rate , unless an additional Weight of 4 Stone be hanged at B. Therefore a Man , &amp;c. pushing upwards under the Beam between B and D becomes lighter .
Which was also to be demonstrated .
SCHOLIUM I. Hence knowing the absolute Force of the Man that pushes upwards , ( that is , the whole oblique Force ) the Place of the Point of Trusion D , and the Angle made by the Direction of the Force with a Perpendicular to the Beam at the same Point , we may have a general Rule to know what Force is added to the End of the Beam B in any Inclination of the Direction of the Force or Place of the Point D. RULE for the first Case .
First find the perpendicular Force by the following Analogy , whose Demonstration is known to all that understand the Application of oblique Forces .
As the Radius : To the right Sine of the Angle of Inclination : : So is the oblique Force : To the perpendicular Force .
Then the perpendicular Force multiplied into the Length of the Brachium B C , minus the said Force multiplied into the Distance D C , will give the Value of the additional Force at B , or of the Weight required to restore the AEquilbirium at A. Or to express it in the Algebraical Way .
Let of express the oblique Force , pf the Perpendicular Force , and x the Force required , or Value of the additional Weight at A to restore the AEquilibrium .
D E : D F : : o f : pf ~pf~BC~pf~DC=x The same Rule will serve for the second Case , if the Quantity found be made negative , and the additional Weight suspended at B. Or having found the Value of the Perpendicular Force , the AEquation will stand thus ~pf~BC+~pf~DC= x , and consequently the additional Weight must be hanged at B ; because x at A is the same as +x at B. SCHOLIUM II .
Hence it follows also , that if , in the first Case , the Point of Trusion be taken at C , the Force at B , ( or Force whose Value is required ) will be the whole Perpendicular Force ; because CD is equal to nothing : And if the Point D be taken beyond C towards A ; the Perpendicular Force pushing upwards at that Point , multiplied into D C , must be added to the same Force multiplied into B C , that is ~pf~BC+ ~pf~DC= x. The Machine I made use of to prove this experimentally , was as follows .
Fig. 2 .
The Brass Balance AB is 12 Inches long , moveable upon the Center C , with a Perpendicular Piece Bb hanging at the End B , and moveable about a Pin at B , and stopped at its lower End b ( by the upright Plate G G ) from being thrust out of the Perpendicular by the pushing Pipe F E , whose lower Point being put into a little Hole at H , the upper Wire or Point ( when put into another little Hole under the Beam at D ) is by Means of the Worm-spring OF pressing against the Plug E to drive forwards the said Wire h D , made to push the said Beam upwards with the Force of the Spring .
TSS is a Stand , to which is fixed the Pillar TC that sustains the Balance ; and it has also a Slit SS to receive a Shank of the moveable Plate G G , to be fixed in any Part of the Slit by a Screw underneath .
EPERIMEN T. Hang on B b , as in the Figure .
Then let OF be so applied to the Hole H , that its upper Wire hDk may go through a little Loop at D so as not to thrust the Beam upwards , but be in the same Position as if it did , that by hanging on the Weight W , the Brachium BC with Bb and FE may be counterpoised ; and then the Action against D and H may be estimated without the Weight of the pushing Pipe .
Then drawing down the End of the Wire k , thrust it into the little Hole under D , and B will be so pulled downwards as to require the additional Weight of 4 Ounces to be hung on at A to restore the AEquilibrium , when BH is 4 Inches , BD3 Inches , and the whole Force of the Spring equal to 10 Ounces .
I need not here say , that for explaining the second Case , Bb is to be suspended at D , with the Plate GG fixed to stop it at the Place M to keep it from being pushed towards T , and that the upper End of GFEDk must push into an Hole made under B , in which Case the Weight P must be hanged at B to restore the AEquilibrium .
P. S. To show experimentally that the Force which the Spring exerts in this oblique Trusion is equal to 10 Ounces : Take the Beam A B , which weighs 4 Ounces , from its Pedestal C T , and having suspended at each End , A and B3 Ounces , support it under its Center of Gravity by the pushing Pipe OF set upright under it , and you will find that the Beam with the two Weights will thrust in the Wire kh as far as h , the Place which the oblique Trusion drives it to .

