Philosoph. Transact. No. 454 .
TAB. I. F ABACB D Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. I. a n FE sn C sn n s n H nG snn F T F f Fig. I. Fig. II .
E G Gt e VI .
Some Thoughts and Conjectures concerning the Cause of Elasticity , by J. T. Desaguliers , LL. D. F. R. S. ATtraction and Repulsion seem to be settled by the Great CREATOR as first Principles in Nature ; that is , as the first of second Causes ; so that we are not solicitous about their Causes , and think it enough to deduce other Things from them .
If Elasticity was admitted as a first Cause , ( as it is by some ) it is thought we should admit of too many principal Causes in Nature , which is contrary to the Rules of good Philosophy .
Philosophers therefore have endeavoured to deduce Elasticity from Attraction , or from Repulsion , or from both .
It is observed , that the same Particles that repel each other strongly , will attract other Particles very strongly ; as appears by many Chemical Dissolutions , especially by the alternate Dissolution and Precipitation of Metals in acid Menstruums .
The Reverend and Learned Dr. Hales has proved this many Ways , in his Vegetable Statics and Haemastatics .
The Elasticity of Air seems to consist wholly in the repulsive Power of its Particles , which do not touch one another while the Air is in its elastic State ; and if those Particles be brought nearer and nearer together , the Effect of their repulsive Force will increase , the Air 's Elasticity being always proportionable to its Density by Compression , which Property will be preserved , though compressed Air be kept a Year or two ; notwithstanding Mr. Hauksbee in his Physico-mechanical Experiments says , that Air will lose part of its Spring by being very much compressed .
But the Air with which he tried it , must have been filled with moist Vapours ; and it is well known , that the Steam of Liquors will lose its Elasticity , especially where its Heat decays .
I have kept several Wind-Guns , strongly charged , for half a Year together , in which the Air had lost none of its Elasticity : Others have found the Air as strong after a Year ; and I have been told by a Person of Credit , that a Wind Gun having been laid by and forgotten for seven Years , when it was found , discharged its Air as many times , and with as much Force , as it used to do .
Now , though Air , compressed by any external Force , does always increase in Elasticity , as it diminishes in Bulk ; yet it may , by Fermentation , diminish its Bulk very much , without gaining any more Elasticity : For if another Fluid , whose Parts repel one another , but attract the Parts of Air , be mixed with Air , the Repulsion of any two Particles of Air will be diminished , in proportion as a Particle of the other Fluid , insinuating itself between them , attracts them towards itself on either Side .
The same thing will happen to the other Fluid , in respect of the Particles of Air , which mixing with its Particles , do in the same manner destroy their Repulsion .
Thus , if we allow an Attraction strong enough between the Parts of two elastic Fluids , it is possible , that by Fermentation a Solid may be made out of two elastic Fluids , which would have still continued fluid without such a Mixture .
We are taught by Chemistry , to mix Fluids together , which immediately coalesce into a Solid .
When Brimstone Matches are burning , the Effluvia of the Sulphur repel each other to great Distances , as may be known by the sulphureous Smell upon such an Occasion .
Now , though these Particles repel each other , they attract the Air very strongly , as appears by the following Experiment : Take a tall Glass Receiver closed at Top , holding about four Quarts of Air , and having put its open End over a Bundle of Brimstone Matches on Fire , standing up in the Middle of a large Dish with Water in it , ( to keep the Air from coming in at the Bottom of the said Receiver ) you will observe , that not only as soon as the Matches are burnt out , but a good while before , the Air , instead of being expanded by the Flame of the Brimstone , will retire into less Compass , the Water beginning to rise from the Dish up into the Receiver , and continuing so to do till some time after the Matches are burnt out ; so that there will be in the Receiver only three Quarts of Air , instead of four ( more or less , in proZ 2 portion portion to the Quantity of Brimstone burnt ) : And this plainly happens by some of the Effluvia , or little Parts of the Sulphur , attracting some of the Particles of the Air , so as to make an unelastic Compound , that precipitates into the Water .
If the Elasticity of the Air is quite lost when the Repulsion of its Particles is taken off , or sufficiently counteracted , it must follow , that its Elasticity depends upon Repulsion : And that this is often the Case , appears by a great Number of Dr. Hales 's Experiments , of which I will mention but a few .
The Doctor took a Cubic Inch of Mutton-Bone , and having put it into his Gun-Barrel Retort , he distilled out of it two or three hundred Cubic Inches of Air into a large glass Bottle , the Weight of which Air , together with the Ashes of the Bone left , weighed as much as the whole Quantity of Bone did at first .
Now the Air had been confined in that Bone , together with many sulphureous Particles , in such manner , that the mutual Attraction of the Sulphur and the Air had alternately destroyed each other 's repulsive Force , and brought those Substances into a little Compass ; but the Fire in the Distillation separated them from each other , so as to restore them , in a great measure , to their usual Elasticity .
This appeared by bringing a Candle near the Mouth of the Bottle that held this revived Air ; for every time the Candle was brought near , the Air took Fire , and flashed out of the Bottle with a sulphureous Smell .
The Air may be consolidated in many hard Bodies , so as to be there quite void of Elasticity , and there do the Office of a Cement , till by the Action of Fire , or some particular Fermentations , it is again restored to its perfectly elastic State .
This is the Meaning of the Doctor 's Words , when he says , that some Bodies absorb , and others generate Air ; and the same Bodies do sometimes absorb , and at other times generate Air .
He found more or less Air in almost every solid Substance that he tried ; but , what was most remarkable , he found that the Calculus humanus ( or Stone taken out of a Man 's Bladder ) was made up of above half its Weight of Air .
Some have endeavoured to solve Elasticity by Attraction only ; as for Example : If the String AB ( TAB. I. Fig. 1 .
) be considered as made up of Particles lying over one another in the manner represented at AD B ; it is plain , that if the Point D be forcibly brought to C , the Parts will be pulled from each other ; and when the Force , that stretched the String , ceases to act , the Attraction of Cohesion ( which was hindered before ) will take place , and bring back the String to its former Length and Situation after several Vibrations .
Now , though this seems to agree pretty well with the Phenomenon of a String in Motion , it will by no means solve the Elasticity of a Spring fastened at one End , and bent either way at the other , like a Knife or Sword-blade , as in Fig. 2 .
For if such a Spring be bent from A to a , the Particles on the Side C , which now becomes convex , will be farther asunder at F , while the Particles at D , carried to the concave Part E , will come closer together : So that the Attraction , instead of making the Spring restore itself , will keep it in the Situation in which it is , as it happens in Bodies that have no Elasticity , where perhaps only Attraction obtains .
Thus a Plate of Lead , a Plate of Copper , and a Plate of soft Iron , stands bent .
But the most probable way of solving the Elasticity of Springs , is to consider both a repulsive and an attractive Property in the Particles , after the manner of the black Sand , which is attracted by the Loadstone , and has been shown by the learned and ingenious Professor Petrus van Muschenbrook , to be nothing else but a great Number of little Loadstones .
Fig. 3 .
Let us suppose a Row of round Particles touching one another only in the Points c in a Line from A to B. It is plain , from what Philosophers have shown , concerning the Attraction of Cohesion , that upon the least Shake , or Alteration of the Position of a strait Line , these Particles will run together , and form a Sphere , in which the Globules will have more Points of Contact .
But if these Particles have Poles like Magnets in the opposite Places marked n , s , so that all the Poles n , n , n , &amp;c. repel one another ; and all the Poles s , s , s , &amp;c. do likewise repel one another , the Line AB will continue strait ; for if by any Force the said Line BA be put into another Position , as into the Curve b a , then the Poles n n , &amp;c. being brought nearer together , ( while the Poles s , s , &amp;c. are farther asunder ) will repel one another more strongly , and thereby hinder the Globules from running together towards the concave Part ; and the Spring , left to itself , ( all this while supposing one End , as b , B , or ~ , fixed ) will restore itself , throwing its End a back to A , and so on to ~ , by the first Law : Then being in the Position ~ ~ , the Poles s , s , &amp;c. are brought nearer together , whose Repulsion , thus increased , throws back ~ to A , and so on forward , the Line of Particles performing several Vibrations round B. May not a Spring of Steel , or other Springs , consist of several Series of such Particles , whose Polarity and Attraction acting at the same time , will show why such Bodies , when they have been bent , vibrate , and restore themselves ?
If we take a Plate of Steel , and make it so hot till it looks white , and then immediately quench it , we thereby fix the Metal in a State very near Fluidity , so that the Particles which the Fire had almost brought to Roundness , have but a very small Contact ; as appears by the Fragility of the Steel thus hardened , which breaks like Glass , and has a short Grain .
Steel , thus hardened , is highly elastic ; for what Workmen call hard , is the most elastic : as appears by the Congress of high-harden 'd Steel Balls , which return , in their Rebound , the nearest to the Place we let them fall from ; and , next to Glass , have the quickest Elasticity of any thing we know .
That we may not be thought to have given an imperfect Account of the Elasticity of a Steel Spring , because such an one as we have described wants Toughness , and will immediately fly when bent to any Degree ; we must beg Leave to consider farther the Properties of the round Particles , or little Spheres , of Steel , in which we have supposed a Polarity .
Let us suppose AB ( Fig. 4 .
) to be two little Spheres or component Particles of Steel , in which , at first , we will suppose no Polarity , but only an Attraction of Cohesion .
Then , whether the Particles have their Contact at c , d , e , n , or at ~ , ~ , s , their Cohesion will be the same ; and the least Force imaginable will change their Contact from one of those Points to another ; because in the rolling of these little Spheres , they do not come into more or less Contact in one Situation than another .
But if we suppose the Point n in each Spherule to be a Pole with a Force to repel all the other Points n in any other Spherule , and likewise s another Pole , repelling the other Points s ; the Spherules will cohere best , and be at Rest in that Position where the Points c , c , are in Contact , and n and s at equal Distances on either Side .
For if the Spherules be turned a little , so as to bring the Points d , d , into Contact , as in Fig. 5 .
the Poles n , n , being brought nearer , act against each other with more Force than the Points s , s , which are now farther off , and consequently drive back the Spherules to the Contact at c , c , beyond which continuing their Motion , they will go to ~ ~ , Fig. 6 .
and so backwards and forwards , till at last they rest at c , c , which we may call the Point of AEquilibrium for Rest in a Spring .
Now there are , besides this , two other Points of AEquilibrium , beyond which the Spring may break , which are the Points e , e towards n , and ~ , ~ towards s ; see Fig. 7 .
that is , when the Spherules have their Poles n , n brought very near together , the mutual Repulsion increases so , that the Attraction at the Contact is not able to hold them , and then they must fly asunder , the Spring breaking .
We suppose the Points e , e , to be the Points of Contact , beyond which this must happen ; but that if the Contact be ever so little short of it , as between e and d , the Spherules will return to their Contact at c , after some Vibrations beyond it , as has been already said .
This is the Reason why I call e , ( in one of the Spherules ) and its correspondent Point ~ on the other Side c , the Points of AEquilibrium ; for if the Spring be bent towards a ( Fig. 3 .
) so that the Spherules , like A and B , ( Fig. 7 .
) touch beyond e , the Spring will break : Likewise if the Spring be bent the other way , till the Spherules touch beyond ~ , then it will break the other way .
Now when the Spherules touch at e , e , or at ~ , ~ , the Spring is as likely to return to its first Position as to break ; for which Reason I have called the Points e and ~ , Points of Equilibrium , as also having known by Experience , that a Spring left bent to a certain Degree , has , after some time , broke of itself .
From all this it appears , that Spherical Particles will never make a tough Spring ; therefore the Figure of the Particles must be altered , in order to render it useful ; and this is what is done in bringing down the Temper of the hard Steel , and letting down a Spring , as it is called .
What Change ought to be made in the Particles , we shall first show ; and then consider how far that is done by those who make Springs .
If the Parts supposed Globules , as in Fig. 3 .
are now flattened at c , where the Contact is , so as to put on the Shape nedc~~ s , ( as in Fig. 8 .
) the Contact will be much increased , and reach from d to ~ , so that in bending the Spring there will still remain a great Contact in the Particles , and the Points of AEquilibrium for breaking ( viz. e , e above , and ~ , ~ below ) will be removed nearer to the Poles n , or s , than when the Particles are round ; the Consequence of which will be , that the Spring must be bent much farther , to be in Danger of breaking , than in the former Supposition ; as may be seen in Fig. 9 .
where two Particles being opened about the Point d as a Centre , the attracting Points c , c , and ~ ~ , have still some Force to help to bring back the Particles to their whole Contact ; because in this Shape of the Particle the attracting Points c , c , ~ , ~ are removed but in Proportion to their Distance from the angular Point d ; whereas if the Particles had been spherical , and the Line d~ an Arc of a Circle , the attracting Points c , c , and ~ , ~ , would have removed from one another farther than in Proportion to twice the Square of the Distance from d , ( as in Fig. 5 .
) and so have afforded very little Help for bringing back the Particles to their Contact .
A Row of Particles in the Spring thus conditioned , is to be seen in the natural State at B A , Fig. 10 .
and bent at ba in the same Figure .
Here it is to be observed , that if in this Figure of the Particles you would bend the Spring to bring the Particles to touch at their Point of breaking AEquilibrium , you must open them so much on the contrary Side , that the Spring will be bent far beyond any Uses intended to be made of it , as appears by Fig. 11 .
where two Particles are brought to touch at the equilibrating Point e ; and by Fig. 12 .
where many Particles being put into that Condition , the Spring is brought round quite into a Circle .
Now the common Practice in making Springs is the most likely to produce this Effect required in the Particles ; for the hard Spring , whose Particles were round , or nearly so , is heated anew , and whilst it is cooling gently , the mutual Attraction increases the Contact , so that the Particles grow flatter in those Places where before they had but a small Contact ; and lest this Contact should become too great , the Spring 's Softening is stopped by quenching it in Water , or Oil , or Grease .
Another way of making Springs , is to begin and shape them in cold unelastic Steel , and then having heated them to a small Degree , for Example , to a Blood red Heat , immediately to cool them in some proper Liquors .
This also settles the Particles in their oblong Figure , through which they must pass before they become round , or nearly so , in a white Heat .
That Particles of Steel are fixed in the Figures which they have at the Instant of dipping will not appear strange , when we consider , that dipping red-hot Steel in cold Liquors , in a particular Position , makes it magnetical .
If it be asked , How we account for making Springs only with hammering , it is easily answered , That we can make Iron and Steel magnetical only with hammering ; and if we can give and destroy Poles in the whole Piece , there is no Improbability to think we can give Poles to little Parts ; or rather bring into a particular Situation the Poles which they have ; for if the Poles that we have considered be placed quite irregularly , there will be no Elasticity at all .
Agreeable to this , Springs may be made of other Metals than Iron or Steel , though not so perfect , by Hammering ; for it will be sufficient for the little Particles to have Poles that attract and repel one another , driven by the Hammering into a regular Order .
N. B. This , applied to the Vibration of a String , will better solve its several Cases than Attraction alone ; and the Elasticity of Glass is just the same as that of a very brittle Steel-Spring .

