Fig.2 .
Philosoph : Transact : no. 334 .
AB Fig.1 .
AB FG E FG E D C D Fig.3 .
AB E G F DC C i l m Z k EHP Fig.4 .
AID NOg of Q~ LS a GWTV nBCXY b A Fig.5 .
DIE EZ I OF W KL GQR plate.1 .
G E F A C Fig.7 .
d o ~ F X ~W D V ~T R H III .
An Attempt to account for the rising and falling of the Water of some Ponds near the Sea , or ebbing and flowing Rivers ; where the Water is lowest in the Pond , at the Time of high Water in the Sea or River ; and the Water is highest in the Pond , at the Time of low Water in the Sea or River .
As also for the increasing or decreasing of the Water of such Pools and Brooks as are highest in the dry Seasons , and lowest in the rainy Seasons : With an Experiment to illustrate the Solution of the Phenomenon .
By the Reverend J. T. Desaguliers , L. L. D. and R. S. S. HEro Alexandrinus , and other Hydraulick Writers , have described a Cup ( called a Tantalus , from its Effect ) which will hold any Liquor very well , when it is not filled above a certain Height marked in the Cup ; but if it be filled higher , not only the Liquor above the Mark will run out , but the whole Liquor that was in the Cup .
This is performed by a Syphon in the Cup , which is sometimes concealed to make the Effect the more surprising .
The Cup , AB ( Fig. 1 .
) has a visible Syphon CED in it ; the Cup , ( Fig. 2 .
) has the same , concealed by the Figure of a Man , to represent Tantalus in the Fable ; and the Cup of Fig. 3 .
has its Syphon more concealed , as it is carried up into the Handle .
Any of these Cups will hold Water very well , provided they are not filled up above the Line F G ; for then not only the Liquor that is above FG will run out , but all the Liquor in the Cup as low as D , the Orifice of the short Leg of the Syphon .
EXPERIMEN T. Fig. 4 .
In the Vessel abcd is placed an open wooden Box ABCD filled with Water as high as the Line L M. Another Box or Plug EFGH made tight , and containing Weight to sink it , is made to let down into the Water between the partition IK and the End AB of the Box above mentioned ; but when it is not to press the Water up to I O , ( as it does when let down ) it is drawn out of the Water by the Weight m , which pulls it up by the Bar ik fastened to a Leaver moving round the Center l. When , by means of the Plug , the Water in the Space ABKI is pushed up to I O , by passing under K ; it runs out thro ' the Spout PQ ( whose Passage is gaged by a little Sluce P p ) and falls into the Vessel RS made of an oblong Figure like a Fish-Pond , and having a Syphon at S , so as to make it a Tantalus , or in the Nature of the Cups above mentioned .
Let the Weight m pull up the Plug EFG H , and the Water , having filled R S , will run down below the Orifice P to M. The Tantalus R S , beginning to run out as soon as full , will for the Reasons above given , continue to run till it is all emptied ; and as it discharges it self into another Tantalus TV ( whose Syphon is at V ) ; this last Tantalus will also , when full , begin to run out , and its Water go down to xY o. If the Plug be let down gradually , as soon as the Water begins to run out of the last Tantalus T V , ( and the first Tantalus RS be covered so as to be concealed from Sight ) it will appear to the Lookers on , That the Cavity T V , representing a Pond near an ebbing and flowing River ( as I am credibly informed there is such an one at Greenhive in Kent , between London and Gravesend ) always rises , whilst the Water at NO ( or the Tide ) falls to L M ; and always sinks whilst the Water at LM ( or the Tide ) rises to O L. EXPERIMENT II .
Let the Water in the Box ABCD not be made use of ; only the Vissel Z be filled every half Hour : It will empty it self in the Space of a Quarter of an Hour , falling like Rain , and dropping also thro ' the Leaden Platform of into the hidden Tantalus R S , which will not begin to run till this artificial Rain is over : Then in a Quarter of an Hour more , the Tantalus RS will have emptied it self into the visible Tantalus T V , which will be filling all the Time after Z has done running ; ( or in the dry Season ) and as soon as TV is full , it will begin to run out thro ' its Syphon V , at the End of the half Hour , when the Vessel Z or Sieve runs again ; that is , at the Return of the rainy Season .
This last Experiment may easily be applied to those Ponds , or those Brooks , that are high in dry Weather , and low in wet Weater ; of which Kind , I am told , there is a Brook at Lambourn in Berkshire .
If it be objected , that such Ponds are full for some time , which a Tantalus cannot be , because it begins to run out as soon as full ; that may be easily solved , by supposing the hidden Tantalus , ( or intermediate Cavity between the River and Pond ) to contain more Water than the visible one , provided it does not contain so much as not to be emptied , before the Return of the Tide .
The same Solution will serve for wet and dry Seasons , only supposing the Cavities larger .
If it be asked , where the Water of the visible Tantalus , near a River , can run ; it may be answered , that all this may happen , tho ' the second , or lowest Tantalus shou 'd have its Bottom higher than low Water-Mark in the River .
And for the Syphons , which are of a particular Make in the Cup ; tho ' such be not supposed in the Earth , yet any long Passage , rising in the Middle , will answer the End .
See Fig. 5 .
where ABCD represents the Channel of a River , AD high Water-Mark , and GH low Water-Mark ; ZIa Passage from the River to the Cavity IKLM N , or first , or hidden Tantalus ; LMQ the Syphon of the first Tantalus , running into the second Tantalus , or visible Pond OQR P , which by its Syphon RSV runs out into low Grounds that may be above the low Water-Mark G H ; and the Bottom KL of the first Tantalus may be above the Top of the last , whose Level is the Line W W. ABCDYOQRPVH is the Section of the Surface of the Earth .

