Philos. ~.No .
387 .
Fig. 6 .
FH AB C b d b f aa D. D. E. E. f c e. e. A B g I c KG K c GCCg AK I BD G CEF 387 .
AK Fig.2 BD GH C OF ~ .
G. ~~~ ~ .
N AL Fig. 4 .
Fig 3 .
Fig 1 .
AE MHBQ AE AE MGG OCHC B PPPP PPS~SS~SP LDO Q C EFI Fig. 5 Q P O E I. The * Dissertation concerning the Figure of the Earth continued ; by the Reverend J. T. Desaguliers , LL. D. F. R. S. HOW the Figure of the Earth is deduced from the Laws of Gravity and Centrifugal Force , is very well shown by the late Savilian Professor of Astronomy , Dr. John Keill , in a Book that he wrote in the Year 1698 , against Dr. Burnet 's Theory of the Earth ; and therefore I shall transcribe from him what he has said upon that Subject ; because , otherwise , I shou 'd only say the same Thing in other Words .
I own indeed that he has made a Mistake in that Book concerning the Measure of the Degrees of an Ellipse ; but I find that all that relates to the oblate Spheroidical Figure of the Earth is right ; and the little Difference of taking 15 Paris Feet for the Space that a Body falls thro ' in a Second , instead of 15 Feet 1 Inch and 2 Lines , and a Number of Feet , a little less than true , for the Diameter of the Earth ( which was not so well known at that Time ) will no way invalidate his Demonstration and Proof .
Here follow his Words .
~ To prove the Earth to be higher at the AEquator than at the Poles , I will suppose first , that , at the Beginning of the World , the Earth was fluid and spherical ; but afterwards God Almighty having given it a Motion round its own Axis , all Bodies upon the Earth wou 'd describe either the AEquator or Circles , parallel to the AEquator , and , by consequence , all wou 'd ~ endeavour to recede from the Center of their Motion .
* V. Philos. Transact. N. 386 .
It is to be here observed , that if a Body doth freely revolve in a Circle about a Center , as the Planets do about the Sun , that its Centripetal Force ( or that Force by which it is drawn towards the Center ) is always equal to its Force , by which it doth endeavour to recede from the Center ; for the Force , which detains a Body in its Orbit , must be equal to the Force by which it endeavours to recede from its Orbit , and fly off in the Tangent .
This may be clear by the Example of a Body turned round a Center by the Help of a Thread , which detains the Body in its Orbit ; the Thread , being stretched by the Motion of the Body , will endeavour to contract itself equally towards both Ends , by which it will pull the Center as much towards the Body , as it doth the Body towards the Center .
Now this Centrifugal Force is always proportional to the Periphery , which each Body describes in its diurnal Motion by the first Theorem of Hugenius de Vi Centrifuga : So that under the Aequator , which is the biggest Circle , the Centrifugal Force wou 'd be greatest , and still grow less as we approach the Pole where it quite vanishes , there being there no diurnal Rotation .
And without doubt , all Bodies having this Centrifugal Force , by which they endeavour to recede from the Center of their Motion , wou 'd fly off from the Earth , if they were not kept in their Orbit by their Gravity , or that Force by which they are pressed towards the Center of the Earth , which is much stronger upon our Earth than the Centrifugal Force ; and because the Gravity upon the Surface of the Earth is always the same ; but the Centrifugal Force alters and grows less , the nearer we come to the Poles , it is plain that the Gravity under the AEquator , having a greater Force to oppose it , than that which is near the Poles , will not act so strongly in the one Place as in the other , and consequently Bodies will not be so heavy under the AEquator as at the Poles .
If the Circle * AE PQP represent the Earth , AE Q the AEquator , and PP the Poles , if C be a Body in the AEquator , it is evident that it will be pulled by two contrary Forces ; namely , that of its Gravity , which pulls it towards the Center , and that of its Centrifugal Force , which pulls it from it .
Now , if both these Forces were equal , it is evident it wou 'd go neither of these Ways ; but if one were stronger than the other , it wou 'd move where the strongest Force pulls it , but only with a Velocity which is proportional to the Differences of these two Forces , and therefore it wou 'd not descend so fast as if there were no Centrifugal Force , pulling against it ; that is , a Body in the AEquator , does press less towards the Center , than at the Pole , where there is no Centrifugal Force to lessen its Gravity .
Bodies therefore , of the same Density , are not so heavy in one Place as in the other .
Now in a spherical Fluid , all whose Parts gravitate towards the Center , I think it is evident from the Principles of Hydrostaticks and Fluidity , that all those Bodies , which are equally distant from the Center , must be equally pressed with the Weight of the incumbent Fluid , and if one Part come to be more pressed than another , that which is most pressed will thrust that out of its Place which is least , till all the Parts come to an AEquilibrium one with another ; and this is known by a common and easy Experiment , if you take a recurv 'd Tube , ~ and fill it with Water or any other Fluid , it will rise equally in both Legs of the * Fig. I. ~ Fig II .
Tube , so that the Surfaces CE and FI are equally pressed by the incumbent Columns BCE D , and ~GFI H , but if one of the Legs of this Tube shou 'd be filled with Oil , or some other lighter Fluid , and the other with Water , the lighter Fluid will rise higher than the other , for otherwise , these Surfaces , which are equally distant from the Center , wou 'd not be equally pressed .
Just so if P AE MP S , * represents a fluid Sphere , which we may imagine composed of a great many communicating Canals or Tubes , the Fluid in every one of which presses upon the Center ; now if the Fluid , in every one of these Tubes , was of equal Weight or Gravity , it is plain , that , by that means , they wou 'd be also of an equal Height from the Center ; for by that means only , wou 'd the Center be equally pressed by the Weight of all the Tubes ; but ~ if the Fluid , in the Canal AE O M , were lighter than the Fluid in the Canal PO S , it is plain , that in this Case , the Fluid PO S , pressing more on the Center , ~ than the Fluid in the Canal AE O M , the Surface of the Fluid AE O M , will rise to a greater Height or Distance from the Center ; so that by its greater Height , which recompenses its lesser Gravitation , it will press equally upon the Center with the Fluid in the Canal PO S. After the same manner , ~ if the Fluid in the Canal GO H , were heavier than the Fluid in the Canal AE O M , but lighter than that which is in PO S , then wou 'd the Canal GOH be shorter than AE O M , but longer than PO S , and the Figure composed of all these Tubes , wou 'd be in the Form of a Spheroid which is generated by the Circumrotation of a Semi-ellipsis round its Axis ; but as I Fig. III .
Fig. IV .
have already showed , that if AE OM represent the Semidiameter of the AEquator , that all Bodies in it are lighter than in PO S , the Axis of the AEquator ( we take the Diameter and Axis here , not as pure Mathematical Lines , but as small Canals or Tubes .
) and just so those Bodies which are in the Tube GO H , I have proved to be lighter than those in PO S , but but heavier than the Bodies which are in AE O M , the Centrifugal Force in GH being less than that which is in AE M , and there is no Centrifugal Force in the Poles P S. t is plain , therefore , that the Tube AE OM will be longer than GO H , and GOH will be longer than PO S , that is , the Diameter of the AEquator , will be longer than the Axis of the Earth , and consequently the Figure of the Earth will be after the Fashion of a broad Spheroid , which is generated by the Rotation of a Semi-ellipsis round its les~ ser Axis .
This , I hope , will be sufficient to convince Theorist of the Falseness of his own Assertion , since it is plain Demonstration , than an Earth , formed from a Chaos , must have a very different Figure from what he supposes it had .
But I will now proceed farther , and inquire how much the Gravity is diminished at the AEquator , or any other Parallel by the Centrifugal Force , which all Bodies acquire by being turned round the Earth 's Axis , that from thence we may endeavour to determine , what Proportion the Diameter of the Earth 's AEquator has to its Axis ; to calculate which , I will first suppose , that the mean Semidiameter of the Earth is 19615800 Paris Feet , according to the late Observations of the French Mathematicians , and since the Earth turns round its Axis in the Space of 23 Hours , 56~ , for in that Time , the same Meridianreturns to the same immovable Point of the Heaven again ( but the Sun , in the mean time , seeming to be moved a Degree , according to the Series of the Signs , is the Cause why there are four Minutes more required before the Meridian can overtake him ) from thence it follows , that a Body , under the AEquator , moves through 1426,88 Feet , in the Space of one Second of Time .
Now , according to the Theorem given us by Sir Isaac Newton in his Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica , Schol .
Prop. 4 .
Lib 1 .
The Centrifugal Force of any Body has the same Proportion to the Force of Gravity , that the Square of the Arch , which a Body describes in a given Time , divided by its Diameter , has to the Space , through which a heavy Body moves , in falling from a Place in which it was at rest in the same Time ; and supposing a heavy Body falls 15 Foot in a Second of Time , by Calculation , it will from thence follow , that the Force of Gravity has the same Proportion to the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator , that 289 has to Unity ; and therefore by this Centrifugal Force which arises from the Diurnal Rotation of the Earth round its Axis ; any Body , placed in the AEquator , loses 1/ 289 Part of its Gravity , which it wou 'd have were the Earth at rest , or which is the same Thing , a heavy Body placed at either of the Poles ( where there is no Diurnal Rotation , and consequently no Centrifugal Force ) which weighs 289 Pounds , if it were brought to the AEquator , wou 'd weigh only 288 Pounds .
Having thus determined the Proportion of the Centrifugal Force , at the AEquator , to the Force of Gravity , it will be easy from thence to show their Proportions in any Parallel ; for it is compounded of the Proportion of One to 289 , and of the Co-sine of the Latitude to the Radius ; for if two Bodies describe different Peripheries in the same Time , their Centrifugal Forces are proportional to their Peripheries , or to the Semi-diameters of these Peripheries , as is determined by Mons. Hugens , in his Theoremata de Vi centrifuga &amp; Motu circulari ; but the Periphery which a Body in the AEquator describes , has its Semi-diameter equal to the Radius or Semi-diameter of the Earth , and in any other Place , the Parallels , in which Bodies move , have the Co-sines of their Latitude for their Semi-diameters , and therefore it will follow , that the Force of Gravity is to the Centrifugal Force in a Proportion , compounded of the Radius to the Co-sine of the Latitude , and of 289 to 1 .
and therefore at the Latitude of 51~ 46~ ( for Example ) it will be as 466 to 1 .
But we must observe , that it does not from thence follow , that a Body in that Latitude loses 1/ 466 Part of its absolute Gravity , which it wou 'd have , were the Earth at rest .
For that cou 'd not be , unless the Centrifugal Force acted directly contrary to the Force of Gravity , which it doth no where but at the AEquator ; for let the Circle *QPE represent the Earth , QE the Diameter of the AEquator , O its Center , and let B represent a Body which we suppose to hang by the Thread A B , and to be placed any where between the Pole P and the AEquator Q , and let BD be drawn perpendicular to the Axis .
It is plain , that if the Earth had had no Diurnal Rotation , the Body B wou 'd draw the Thread AB into the Position of A C , since by that means it descends as near as it can to the Center , and there it wou 'd stretch the Thread with all the Force of its Gravity ; or if we will suppose , that the Centrifugal Force acted according to the same Direction A C , it wou 'd then directly oppose the Force of Gravity , * Fig. V. and the Thread wou 'd remain in the same Position , but it wou 'd be stretched with a Force proportional to the Differences of these two Forces .
But because the Body B turns round the Center D , it will endeavour to recede from it according to the Line C B , in which Direction the Centrifugal Force acting , it will not directly oppose the Force of Gravity , but it will draw the Thread from the Position AC into the Position A B , let BG be drawn perpendicular to A C ; if BC represent the Centrifugal Force , acting according to the Direction B C , it is equivalent ( as is commonly known ) to two Forces , one of which is as G C , and acts according to the Direction C G , which is contrary to that by which it descends to O , the other is as G B , and acts according to the Direction G B , which is no way contrary to the Force of Gravity .
If therefore BC represent the total Centrifugal Force of the Body B , that Part of it , which directly opposes the Force of Gravity , will be G C ; from whence it follows , that the Decrease of Gravity , in going from the Pole to the AEquator , is always as the Square of the Co-sine of the Latitude ; for draw BH parallel to the Axis P P , and because the Triangles HC B , CDO are Equi-angular , therefore HC is to CB is to C D , or as QO is to C D , but QO is to CD as the Decrease of Gravity at Q is to the Centrifugal Force at C. And therefore HC is to C B , as the Decrease of Gravity at Q~ is to the Centrifugal Force at C. But if CB represent the Centrifugal Force at C , GC will represent that Part of it which acts directly against the Force of Gravity , and consequently the Decrease of Gravity at the AEquator is to the Decrease of Gravity at C , as HC is to G C ; now HC is to G C , in duplicate Proportion of HC to C B , or of CO or OQ to CD by the 8th of the 6th of Euclid , and therefore the Decrease of Gravity at Q is to the Decrease of Gravity at C , as the Square of CO is to the Square of C D , which was to be demonstrated .
From whence , it is plain , that if HC represent the Decrease of Gravity at the AEquator , and GC its Decrease at C , then will GH represent the Difference of these two Diminutions , or the Difference between the Gravity at Q , and the Gravity at C , but HC is to HG in duplicate Proportion of HC to H B , or of OC to D O ; that is , the Decrease of Gravity at the AEquator is to its increase at C , as the Square of the Radius is to the Square of the Sine of the Latitude .
By this also it will appear , that the Direction of heavy Bodies is not to the Center of the Earth , as has been always supposed ; for if we take a heavy Body and hang it by a Thread , the Thread produced will not pass through the Center any where but at the Poles and the AEquator , for in the Figure the Thread is carried by the Centrifugal Force of the Body B , from the Position AC into the Position A B , where it will rest .
Now to determine the Angle CA B , which the Line of Direction of the Body makes with the Line A C , let AN be drawn parallel to B C , and produce OB till it meet with it in N , and let us consider the Body B as drawn by three Powers , according to three different Directions B O , B L , and A B , the Power which pulls it , according to B O , is its Gravity , that which draws it , according to the Direction B L , is its Centrifugal Force , and that which acts according to A B , is the Strength of the Thread , by which the Body is hindered to move according to either of the two other Directions , and therefore it is an AEquiliV O L. XXXIII .
Nn ` ` brium brium with the other two Powers ; but by a Theorem which is demonstrated by several of the Writers of Mechanics , but particularly by Mons. Huygens in his small Treatise De Potentiis per Fila trahentibus .
If a Body be pulled by three different Powers which are in AEquilibrio with one another , according to three different Directions , A B , BL and B O , these three Powers will be as the three Sides of the Triangle AB N , viz. as A B , AN and BN respectively ; or as A B , BC and A C ; BN being very near parallel , and consequently equal to A C , since they do not meet but at a great Distance .
From hence it follows , that the Force of Gravity is to the Centrifugal Force , as AC to B C. But a Method has been already shown , how the Proportion of the Force of Gravity to the Centrifugal Force may be determined , and therefore the Proportion of AC to BC may be be also determined , which at the Latitude of 51~ 46~ is as 446 to 1 .
Therefore in the Triangle AB C , the Proportion of AC to BC is known , and the Angle ACB being equal to the Angle CO Q , which is subtended by the Arch C Q , the Latitude of the Place , from thence by the Tables of Sines and Tangents , the Angle BAC may be known , which in the abovementioned Latitude is about 5 Minutes .
From hence also it will appear , that it is not the Line A C , which being produced passes through the Center , but the Line AB that is perpendicular to the Curve P Q , for all the Particles of the Fluid will settle themselves in such a Position , that their Lines of Direction downwards , must be perpendicular to the Surface of the Body which they compose , for otherwise the Parts of the Fluid wou 'd not be in AEquilibrium one with another , and therefore altho ' the Lines of Direction of heavy Bodies do not pass through the Center of the Earth , yet are they still perpendicular to their Horizons ; and , upon this Account , there cou 'd arise no Error in levelling of Lines , and in finding the Risings and Fallings of the Ground .
Upon this account also it will appear , that the Surface of the Earth is not spherical , for if it were , then wou 'd all Lines , drawn from the Center , be perpendicular to the Surface of the Earth , since it is the known Property of a Sphere that they must be so ; but I have already showed , that it is not so in the Earth , and therefore it is plain , that the Earth is not a Sphere .
That therefore I may inquire more particularly into the Figure of the Earth , I will resume my former Hypothesis , that the Earth is composed of an infinite Number of Canals , which communicate with one another at the Center , and are all equiponderant , of which we will consider two , as OQ and O C , and let OQ be = r , OD=X and DC= y , let the absolute Gravity be called p , and the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator n. OC is equal to ~x2~y2 the Weight of the Canal OQ is equal to the absolute Gravity of the whole Canal minus the Centrifugal Force of each Particle contained in it , and because the Centrifugal Force of each Particle is as its Distance from the Center , and therefore it increases in an Arithmetical Progression , the greatest of which is n , consequently the Sum of all the Centrifugal Force is equal to 1/ 2 n r , but upon the Hypothesis , that Gravity is the same at all Distances from the Center , the absolute Gravity of the Canal OQ is p r , and therefore its real Weight upon the Center OQ is pr 1/ 2 n r , after the same Manner , the absolute Gravity of the Canal OC is p~~x2+y 2 ; but the Sum of all the Centrifugal Forces of all the Fluids in the Canal O C , is equal to the Centrifugal Force of the Fluid in CD ( as may be easily proved from the Consideration of inclined Planes ) but the Centrifugal Force at C , being to the Centrifugal Force at Q , as CD is to OQ ( that is , as y is to r ) the Centrifugal Force at C will be equal to n y/ r , and because the Centrifugal Force of each Particle is as its Distance from the Point D , which is the Center of the Circle that the Fluid in the Canal CD describes , and therefore the Centrifugal Forces , in counting from the Point D , must increase in an Arithmetical Progression , the greatest of which is n y/ r , and therefore the Sum of all the Centrifugal Forces in CD must be equal to ny y/ 2 r , therefore the Weight of the Canal OC is =p~x2+y2 1/ 2 ny y/ r =pr 1/ 2 n r , which Equation expresses the Nature of the Curve that is made by the Section of the Earth with a Plane through its Poles , and by this the Proportion of the Axis of the Earth , to the Diameter of the AEquator , may be easily determined ; for when CO coincides with O P , then CD or y becomes equal to nothing , and the Equation is p~ x2 =pr 1/ 2 nr or px=pr 1/ 2 n r , and therefore by the 16th of the 6th , p has the same Proportion to p 1/ 2 n that r has to x , or OQ to O D , but p is to p 1/ 2 n as 289 is to 2881/ 2 , or as 578 is to 577 , which therefore is the Proportion of the greatest Diameter of the Earth to the least ; but this is upon Supposition , that Gravity is the same at all Distances from the Center ; but if we will suppose , that the Gravity of Bodies without the Earth is in a Proportion reciprocal to the Squares of their Distances from the Center , the Gravity Gravity of those Bodies , which are within the Earth , will be directly as their Distance , both which do best agree with the observed Phenomenon of Nature ; then will the Gravity at the AEquator be to the Gravity at the Poles as 689 to 692 , which Numbers , in this Hypothesis , do also express the Proportion of the Diameter of the Earth , drawn through its Poles , to its Diameter drawn in the Plane of the AEquator .
It is upon the Account of this Diminution of Gravity , according as we approach the AEquator , that Pendulums of the same Lengths in different Latitudes take different Times to perform their Vibrations ; for because the accelerating Force of Gravity is less at the AEquator than under any Parallel , and under any Parallel it is still less than under another which is nearer the Poles ; it does plainly from thence follow , that a Body placed in the AEquator , or in any other Parallel , will take a longer Time to descend thro ' an Arch of a given Circle , than it wou 'd do at the Poles , and the farther a Body is removed from the Poles , the longer Time it will take to descend through any given Space .
From hence it follows , that the Length of Pendulums , which perform their Vibrations in equal Times in different Latitudes , are directly as the accelerating Forces of their Gravities ; for the Time a Body takes to descend through an Arch of a Cycloid , is to the Time it will take to fall through the Axis of the Cycloid always in a given Proportion , viz. as the Semiperiphery of a Circle is to its Diameter by the 25th Prop. of Huygen 's Horologium Oscillatorium ; and therefore when the Times in which a Body descends through the Axes of two different Cycloids are equal , the Times of the Descent through the Cycloids will be also equal ; but when the Times of the Descent through the Axes are unequal , these Axes , and consequently the Lengths of the Pendulum which vibrates in these Cycloids , are proportional to the accelerating Forces of their Gravities .
By this if we know the Length of a Pendulum which performs its Vibrations in a given Time , in any one Part of the Earth , it is easy to determine the Length of a Pendulum , which performs its Vibrations in the same Time in any other Part of the Earth ; as for Example , the Length of a Pendulum , which vibrates Seconds at Paris , is three Foot eight Lines and a Half , let it be required to find the Length of a Pendulum , which vibrates Seconds at the AEquator .
Because the Gravity at the Poles is to the Gravity at the AEquator , as 692 is to 689 ; therefore the Decrease of Gravity at the AEquator is 3/ 698 Parts of the whole Gravity ; but , as I have before demonstrated , the Decrease of Gravity at the AEquator is to itsEncrease in any other Latitude , as the Square of the Radius is to the Square of the Sine of the Latitude , now the Latitude of Paris being 48~ 45~ , its Sine is 75.183 , and therefore the Square of the Radius is to the Square of the Sine of the Latitude as 1000000 to 565248 , but as 1000000 is to 565248 , so is 3.000 the Number which represents the Decrease of Gravity at the AEquator to 1 .
695 , the Number which represents its Increase at Paris , which added to 689 the Gravity at the AEquator , makes 690.695 , the Number which will represent the Gravity at Paris .
But I have already showed , that as the Gravity at Paris is to the Gravity at the AEquator , so is the Length of a Pendulum which vibrates Seconds at Paris , to the Length of a Pendulum that vibrates Seconds at the AEquator , that is as 690 , 695 to 689 , so is 36,708 the Length of a Pendulum at Paris , which performs its Vibration in a Second to 36,616 , which therefore is the Length of a Pendulum which performs its Vibrations in a Second at the AEquator ; so that the Difference between these two Pendulums is 92/ 1000 Parts of an Inch , which comes pretty near the Observations of Mons. Richer , who at the Island of Cayenne , whose Latitude is 5~ 00~ found that a Pendulum , which vibrates Seconds there , was a tenth Part of an Inch shorter than a Pendulum , which vibrates Seconds at Paris .
Thus we see that the Principles and Hypothesis , and withal their Consequences , upon which the broad spheroidical Figure of the Earth is founded , do exactly agree with Observations , and therefore there is no Doubt to be made , but that the Earth is really of such a Figure , and that the Hypothesis upon which this Figure is grounded ( viz. the diurnal Rotation of the Earth , and by consequence the Centrifugal Force of all Bodies upon it ) must be admitted for a true one ; since the different Vibrations of Pendulums of the same Length , in different Latitudes , can depend upon no other Cause ; for the Change of Air is not able to produce any such Effect , for if the Air made really any Alterations in the Vibrations of a Pendulum , it wou 'd produce a quite contrary Effect than what is observed ; for Pendulums near the AEquator wou 'd move faster than they wou 'd do in Places of greater Latitude , the Air in the one Place , being more rarefied , is much thinner and finer than it is in the other , and therefore gives less Resistance to Bodies that move in it .
In this Reasoning , we have supposed the Earth to have been at first fluid , as the Theorist has done before us , but if we will put the Case , that the Earth was first partly fluid and partly dry , as it is at present , yet because we find that the Land is very near of the same Figure with the Sea ( only raised a little higher that it might not be overflowed ) composing with it the same Solid , and I have already showed that the Surface of the Ocean is spheroidical and not spherical , there is no doubt to be made , but that the Land was formed into the same Figure by its wise Creator at the Beginning of the World , for if it were otherwise , then wou 'd the Land towards the AEquator have been overflowed with Water , which , as I have already proved , must have been higher at the AEquator than at the Poles ; and therefore the Sea wou 'd rise there and spread itself like an Inundation upon all the Land .
' ' To make an End of this long Dissertation , let us in a few Words compare the Experiments and Observations made use of to confirm each of the Opinions abovementioned .
To prove Mons. Cassini 's Figure of the Earth , we must take the Altitude of a Star nearer than to 2 Seconds ; because 2 Seconds answer to 32 Toises on the Surface of the Earth , and the Difference of the Length of Degrees is but 31 .
And what is more , we must take this Angle with an Instrument of 39 Inches Radius ; because the 10 Foot Sector was only used at the Ends of the two Parts of the Meridian .
To disprove Mons. Cassini 's Hypothesis , we need only observe whether a Plumb-Line makes an Angle of of 5 Minutes with a Perpendicular to the Surface of stagnant Waters , or Lines of Level .
To prove Mons. Cassini 's Opinion , the Height of a great many Mountains must be accurately measured by Trigonometry , which Mathematicians have always found very difficult .
To prove Sir Isaac Newton 's Opinion , we are only to measure about one Tenth of an Inch in a Rod of 39,129 Inches ; and to know what to allow for the lengthening of the same Rod by the Summer Heat , when it is shut up in a Case , and carried towards the AEquator .
For though the Experiments on Pendulums , made by several Persons that travelled Southward , differ among themselves , yet they all agree in this , that the Observers were obliged to shorten their Pendulums , in order to make them swing Seconds , as they went towards the AEquator .
And when we come to compare them together , in order to have the exact Proportion of Length in different Latitudes ; we must rely on the most exact Experimenter , which we may very well do on Mons. Richer : because when he found a Difference , he was so careful to find out how much it was , that he caus 'd a simple Pendulum to swing , and compared it with a good Pendulum Clock , which he did several Times every Week for 10 Months together ; and when he returned to France , he compared it with the Length of the Pendulum at Paris ; which is of 3 Feet 8 3/ 5 Lines ( or 39,129 English Inches ) and found it to be shorter by 1 1/ 4 Line .

