Philos : Transact : no : 288 .
Fig. III .
Fig. IV .
Fig. I. Fig. II .
a Fig. VI .
The Appearance of the Spo N on the Sun in June &amp; July 1703 .
as observed by W : Derham F.R.S. Fig.1 .
The Spots in June .
EE July .
5 .
W Jun. 13 .
Jun. 15 .
Jun.18 .
19 ~ S ccc babababaaa fig. 1 .
fig. 2 .
fig. 3 .
fig. 4 .
bb ~ Spots ~~ ~ ~ Fig. 2 .
The Spots in June and July .
Fig. II .
W ~ Jun. 28 .
Jun. 29 .
Jun. 30 .
Jul. 1 .
Jul. 4 .
5 .
6 .
Fig. S S Fig. VII .
1703 June 15 16 18 Philos. Transact. No. 388 .
c A a Fig : 1 Fig. 2 .
A dcn ~ AE Bb bE ec Cg ~ a d sd D Fig.4 bcSD Fig.3 .
g a ae u fkr i eV dK RL F ~C PP B AAhHPWB NzLZC AE X T ~ B O A D Fig.5 E C Ppe E M a Lc Fig 7 .
L P P AE Fig. 6 E LE AE EEC AE C L AE P P 18 Fig. VIII .
I. A Dissertation concerning the Figure of the Earth .
Part the Second .
By the Reverend J. T. Desaguliers , LL. D. F. R. S. SINCE my * Paper concerning the Figure of the Earth was read before the Royal Society , I met with a Differtation of Mons. Mairan ( in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Paris , for the Year 1720 .
) wherein the learned and ingenious Author has taken a great deal of Pains to reconcile the Observations made on Pendulums , ( found to be shorter at the AEquator than at Paris , when they swing Seconds ) with the oblong spheroidical Figure of the Earth , deduced from Mons. Cassini 's Measures .
And tho ' upon a strict Examination of his Conjectures , and what he gives for Demonstrations , I do not find Reason to alter my Opinion concerning the oblate or flatted Spheroid , which Sir Isaac Newton has shown to be the Figure of the Earth ; yet since it might be thought by some , who have read Mons. Mairan 's Treatise , and afterwards may read mine , that I have not considered all the Circumstances that He has done , and that I have not been exact enough in the Mathematical Part of my Dissertation , because I have drawn some Conclusions from supposing the Figure of the Earth spherical , when I should have supposed it an oblong Spheroid ; I beg Leave to show here , wherein I think Mons. Mairan is mistaken , and to give those additional Proofs of my Assertions , which I promised the Society when I gave in my last Paper .
* Vid. Philos. Trans. No. 386 , 387 .
First then I begin with the Conjectures .
Mons. Mairan says , that it is as reasonable to suppose the Earth ( if it was once fluid ) to have been an oblong Spheroid at first , as a Sphere ; and that , in such a Case , the Centrifugal Force of the several Parts of the Earth , arising from its Revolution about its Axis , which might convert a Sphere into an oblate Spheroid , wou 'd only change an oblong Spheroid into one less oblong .
If the Earth was at first a Fluid , ( supposed homogeneous , and of any given Form , ) and left to those Laws , which we find to obtain at present ; it must put on a spherical Figure , for the same Reason that Drops of Mercury , of Water , and other Fluids , put on such a Figure .
And to suppose any Change made in that Figure from the Pressure of an external Fluid , filling up all Space , is contrary to what has been demonstrated by Sir Isaac Newton in his Principia Lib. 2 .
Prop. 19 .
where he shows , That if any Portion of a Fluid be compressed by the same or any other homogeneous Fluid , that Portion will not have its Figure altered by that Pressure .
And indeed we see , that in the Receiver of the AirPump , Lumps of Butter , coagulated Oil , or Honey , Drops of quicksilver or Water , &amp;c. have the same Figure , whether the Pressure of the Air acts upon them , or be taken off by exhausting the Receiver .
That a fluid Substance , of any Figure , will by the Gravity of its Parts become spherical , is plain by the following DEMONSTRATIO N. Fig. I , Let ABCDE be a Portion of an homogeneous Fluid , whose Parts tend towards one another , and whose Figure is not spherical .
If in such a Fluid we suppose a Syphon as ACE ( or which is the same thing , if all the Fluid shou 'd be frozen , except the Canal AC E ) whose Legs AC and CE are unequal , and meet at C , the Center of the Fluid , towards which there is the greatest Tendency ; the Fluid will run out at A in the Leg A C , till it be come down as far as g in the Leg C E , supposing Cg equal to A C. But if the Leg AC be lengthened as far as c , then the Fluid will only come down as far as e in the Leg C E , and at the same time rise up to a in the Leg C a , Ca being equal to C e. If such another Canal or Syphon be supposed at BCD , the Fluid in it will come down from D to d , and rise from B to b. And since such Syphons may be supposed all over the Fluid ABD E ; that Fluid , by the mutual Tendency of its Parts towards one another , must be reduced to the spherical Figure abd e. Which was to be demonstrated .
Now , without considering the Unreasonableness of the Supposition , let us imagine the Earth to have been an oblong Spheroid at first , and then to have a diurnal Revolution given to it , which shou 'd by Degrees shorten its Axis , to bring it to what Messieurs Cassini and Mairan suppose it at present to be .
If in such a Case the Earth be supposed fluid enough to change its Figure , by the Revolution about its Axis , why should it stop when the AEquatorial Diameter comes to want just one 96th Part of the Length of the Axis ?
since two Powers act upon it to shorten its Axis , viz. Gravity , and the Centrifugal Force ; the first of which has already been shown capable to reduce it to a Sphere , and the Centrifugal Force is acknowledged by Mons. Mairan to be ( as Sir Isaac Newton has proved it ) at the AEquator equal to 1/ 289 Part of the Gravity there .
Certainly the Alteration of Figure wou 'd not have stopped , before the Earth came to be a Sphere ; nay , and it must have risen at the AEquator ; and how much , I have already shown in my former Paper .
Again , if we suppose the Earth of an heterogeneous Fluid , before the diurnal Revolution , the heaviest Parts wou 'd go towards the Center , and the lighter towards the Surface ; and that Way the Terraqueous Globe wou 'd also become a Sphere .
Then if , when the Central Parts are fixed , and the superficial Strata are still fluid , the Earth receives a diurnal Motion ; it will rise at the AEquatorial Parts , and that to a greater Height than what I have shown in my former Paper , where I supposed the Earth of uniform Matter .
And that something like this must be the Case , appears from what Sir Isaac Newton has said upon this Subject .
For after having shown , from supposing the Earth of uniform Matter , that the Centrifugal Force of all its Parts wou 'd bring it to be 171/ 6 English Miles higher at the AEquator than at the Poles , and after having given a Table of the proportionable Decrease of the Length of the Degrees of a Meridian of the Earth , going from the Poles to the AEquator , in such a Figure of the Earth , with the Lengths that Pendulums must have to swing Seconds in several Latitudes ; from a Comparison of the Lengths of Pendulums ( observed by different Persons to be shorter towards the AEquator , than in greater Latitudes ( when they swing Seconds ) he shows that the Earth must be 317/ 12 Miles higher at the AEquator than at the Poles ; and therefore that it must be denser towards the Central than the Superficial Parts to produce a flatted Spheroid , where the AEquatorial Diameter must exceed the Axis so much more ; that is , be longer something more than 1/ 125 Part .
Lastly , let us suppose the Earth , at its first Creation , to have been made of Land and Water , the first as solid , and the last as fluid as it is now , but of Mons. Cassini 's Figure , and examine the Consequence .
Since in that Figure the Axis is 1/ 96 Part longer than the AEquatorial Diameter ; the Gravity will be so much greater at the AEquator than at the Poles , that the Waters will all flow to the AEquatorial , and leave the Polar Regions ; which will happen still more by the Centrifugal Force , which the Earth in its diurnal Motion will give to the Fluid ; and therefore the Sea wou 'd be 4385/ 100 Miles ( rekoning 5000 Feet to a Mile ) higher at the AEquator than at the Poles , which must overflow all the Torrid Zone , and leave the Polar Regions dry .
I am very well aware , that it may be objected by such as have read Mons. Mairan 's Dissertation , and have not read Sir Isaac Newton 's Principia , or have not read that Book with due Attention ` ` That I have not argued fairly in drawing Consequences from a greater Gravity at the AEquator than at the Poles , in an oblong Spheroid ; because Mons. Mairan has shown , that , in such a Figure of the Earth , the Gravity is greater at the Poles than at the AEquator ; and that I shou 'd have drawn my Consequences from these Principles .
' ' To which I answer , that his Demonstrations aboutGravity are built upon wrong Suppositions , as I shall show by and by .
Nevertheless , supposing that Gravity was greater towards the Poles than towards the AEquator , in the Proportion that he assigns , namely of the Ray of Curvature drawn into the Perpendicular to the Curve , terminated at the Axis ; let us consider what will follow from his Principles .
* Let us then suppose the Earth at first in a fluid State ; AA the Axis , ~dAE the AEquatorial Diameter , ~ ba Ray of Curvature , dn another , ac and dC two Lines * Fig. II .
of Tendency or Perpendiculars to the Curve , intercepted by the Axis at c and C ; and d C , A C , two Tubes or Canals of the Fluid , gravitating towards , and communicating at C. I say that , according to Mons. Mairan 's Principles of Gravity , the Earth cannot preserve its oblong spheroidical Figure .
For since the Gravity at a : Is to the Gravity at d : : As dn~d C : to ab~a c , it will follow ( from the Nature of the Ellipse ) that the Gravity at A : will be to the Gravity at d : : As A C4 : to d C4 : and therefore the Forces , with which the Columns of Fluid AC and dC tend towards C , will be as their Masses drawn into the Forces driving towards C , that is , as AC~A C4 to dC~d C4 .
Now by the Principles of Hydrostaticks , it is evident that the Fluid , in the Canal A C , will cause the Fluid in the Canal dC to run out at d as long as AC~A C4 is greater than dC~d C4 : And if the Canal Cd be continued quite to ~ , the Surface of the Fluid in AC will sink to ~ , whilst the Surface of the Fluid in dC rises up to ~ , in which Case as ~C=C ~ , the Point A will come to ~ , and the Point d to ~ , and the Curve Ad being changed into ~ ~ , the oblong Spheroid will be changed into a Sphere , the only Figure consistent with the AEquilibrium of the fluid Parts , according to Mons. Mairan 's own Principles ; because then you will have A C4 = d C4 , and AC~A C4 =dC~d C4 .
If we make use of Sir Isaac Newton 's Principles in this Reasoning , we shall also show , that an oblong , spheroidical , fluid Earth will be changed into a Sphere ; but not so fast as it does by Mons. Mairan 's Laws ; for , according to Sir Isaac Newton , the Gravity at A : Is to the Gravity at d : : As 5~ C d : 5~ A C. Q. E. D. * Fig. II .
NB .
Here we have supposed no diurnal Revolution , for as soon as that begins , the Centrifugal Force will raise the AEquatorial Parts , and change the Sphere into a flatted Spheroid , as has been before shown , and is allow 'd by Mons. Mairan .
Now if we suppose the same Figure of the Earth , but the Land ( at its first Creation ) as firm as it is now ; it will in that Case follow from Mons. Mairan 's Principles , that the Sea must rise and overflow all the AEquatorial Regions , tho ' the Earth had no diurnal Revolution ; and much more so , when the Centrifugal Force , arising from the diurnal Motion , helps to carry the Water the same Way .
DEMONSTRATIO N. Let P ae P AE * represent the Plane of a Meridian , PP the Axis of the Earth ( supposed an oblong Spheroid ) ae AE the Diameter of the AEquator , dea ae Part of the Surface of the Earth , ae A and eB two Perpendiculars to the Surface of the Earth ( which are here two Rays of Curvature ) fc the Surface of the Sea , and fde g , ba ae c two Cylinders of Sea-Water of equal Bases and equal Heights .
Since Gravity acts on the two equal Columns of Water bac ae , fdeg in the reciprocal Ratio of the Ray of Curvature ( at the respective Places of the Columns ) drawn into that Part of it which Mons. Mairan calls the Line of Tendency , ( that is , in the Ratio of eB~ eZ to ae A~ ae C ) the Weight of f e : will be to the Weight of b ae : : As ae A~ ae C : to eB~e Z. Therefore if there be a Communication between the fluid Co* Fig. III .
lumns fe and b ae , there cannot be an AEquilibrium , till the Quantity of Matter in f e , becomes to the Quantity of Matter in b ae , reciprocally as the Gravity at the Place ae is to the Gravity at e ; and in that Case the Height ge will be reduced to k e , if k e : c ae : : eB~ e Z : ae A~ ae C. And consequently the Surface of the Sea will go thro ' the Points ikb c , where bc under the AEquator is higher than ik towards the Poles .
Q. E. D. NB .
That the Centrifugal Force will still add to the Height of the Sea at b c , is plain from what we have said before .
And if we apply these Principles to determine the differeut Lengths of Pendulums , swinging Seconds at Paris and at the AEquator ; from the Gravity at Paris , compared to the Gravity at the AEquator ( in this Supposition of the Action of Gravity and Figure of the Earth ) a Pendulum must be shorter at the AEquator by more than 10 Lines , without considering the Centrifugal Force ; and if the Centrifugal Force be taken into Consideration , the Pendulums must be shortened near a whole Inch .
But this being about five Times more than agrees with Observation ; what proves too much , proves nothing at all .
Having thus shown , that Mons. Mairan 's Account of the Action of Gravity , on several Places upon the Earth 's Surface , can be of no Service for reconciling the Experiments made on Pendulums , with the Figure of the Earth deduced from Mons. Cassini 's Measures : I proceed to show that his Demonstrations are founded upon wrong Principles .
And first , in Relation to Gravity .
This Gentleman has follow 'd Sir Isaac Newton , in saying , that Gravity increases in a duplicate reciprocal Proportion of the diminished Distance from the Center of the Force , and so vice versa ; but he has follow 'd Sir Isaac Newton no farther than served his present Purpose ; otherwise he wou 'd have known .
That in respect to a Central Body ( as a Planet ) towards which others are ( attracted or ) impelled by Gravity , this Law obtains only , as Bodies attracted , are removed from the Surface of the Planet , to greater Distances from the Center compared with that Distance ; or as from greater Distances they approach nearer to the Planet .
That the greatest Action of Gravity is at the Surface of the Planet .
That afterwards in advancing towards the Center , the Force of Gravity , on the Body attracted , continually grows less , decreasing directly as the Distance ; and that this holds true in a Spheroid as well as a Sphere .
That on different Parts of the Surface of the Earth ( in the Condition it is now ) the Gravity on Bodies is reciprocally as their Distance from the Center of the Earth .
That though at a considerable Distance we look upon the Earth , or any Planet , or even the Sun , as a Point ( in the Center of the Forces tending towards it ) endued with an absolute Force , proportional to its Quantity of Matter ; yet when we come so near the Body as to consider the Space it takes up , we are to take notice , that the whole Attraction or Gravity of the Body , is made up of the Sum of the Attraction of all its Parts properly combined ; and therefore , that when a Corpuscle , or Body attracted , comes to be within the Planet , or Body attracting , the Matter above it draws it back in such a Manner , that it leaves it only a Force to go on towards the Center , which is directly as the Distance , as we have already said ; just as if a Body concentric to the Planet ( whether spherical or spheroidical ) had its Surface just where the Corpuscle is , and all the exterior Crust or Shell was annihilated .
I do not doubt but Mons. Mairan will be of this Opinion , when he has carefully and impartially examined the 12th and 13th Sections of the First Book of Sir Isaac Newton 's Principia , and the 18th , 19th , and 20th Prop. of the Third Book .
And if he will be at the Pains to compare the 38th and 39th Proposition of the Third Book with the 66th of the First , he will find that the Precession of the AEquinoxes is owing to the broad spheroidical Figure of the Earth ; and that if it had Mons. Cassini 's Figure , the AEquinoctial Points wou 'd move in Consequentia faster than they do now in Antecedentia .
Further , Mons. Mairan demonstrates , that in an oblong Spheroid , the Diminution of Gravity , by the Centrifugal Force , increases faster in going from the Poles to the AEquator , than it wou 'd do in a Sphere , and faster in a Sphere than it wou 'd do in a broad Spheroid ; and therefore wou 'd show , ` ` That notwithstanding the Surface of the Earth is nearer to the Center in Mons. Cassini 's Figure than in Sir Isaac Newton 's , yet the Centrifugal Force will diminish the Gravity so fast in going from Paris to the AEquator , that the shortening of Pendulums , to make them swing Seconds at the AEquator , may very well be accounted for that Way .
' ' Now let us examine into this Matter , to see whether the Cause is adequate to the Effect .
If the Distance from the Surface of the Earth at the Pole to the Center be 96 , and the Distance of the Surface at the AEquator be 95 , the Distance of the Surface at Paris , in the Latitude of 48~ 50~ , will be 95,562 , &amp;c. by the Property of the Ellipse .
Now since the Force of Gravity , in different Places on the Earth 's Surface , is reciprocally as the Distance from the Center , and the Lengths of Pendulums , that perform their Vibrations in the same Time , are directly as the Force of Gravity ; therefore the Length of Pendulums at Paris , will be to their Length at the AEquator , as 95 to 95,562 , &amp;c. that is , as 440,555 , &amp;c. to 443,165 &amp;c. and consequently they must be lengthened 2,61 &amp;c. Lines .
But as from Mons. Mairan 's Principles , the Diminution of Gravity by the Centrifugal Force , is greater at the AEquator than at Paris , hardly 1/ 440 Part of the whole Gravity at the AEquator , the Pendulums must be shortened in that Proportion ; so that then the Length of a Second-Pendulum , will be 440,555 + 2,61 1 Lines .
But as that Quantity is greater than 440,555 , &amp;c. therefore the Pendulums upon the Whole must be lengthened : Nay , though we shou 'd allow a shortening of two Lines ; since by Observation Pendulums are found to be about two Lines shorter at the AEquator , the oblong spheroidical Figure of the Earth cannot be consistent with the Experiments on Pendulums .
I beg Leave to set down Mons. Mairan 's aforesaid Demonstration here ; that we may see whether he has assumed true Principles .
PROPOSITION V. * XI .
The Centrifugal Force at any Degree of Latitude , taken upon the oblong Spheroid , between the AEquator and the Pole , is less in Comparison to the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator , than it wou 'd be at the same Degree of Latitude taken upon a Sphere ; or , which is the same thing , the Centrifugal Force increases more , going from the Poles ` towards the AEquator , upon an oblong Spheroid , than upon a perfect Sphere ; and consequently Gravity diminishes more , and a Pendulum must be more * See Mons. Mairan 's Dissertation , Article XI .
&amp;c. shortened under the AEquator , in the Hypothesis of the oblong Spheroid , than in that of a perfect Sphere .
` Having described an oval Curve of any Kind , as for Example , the Ellipse *ADBE abovementioned , and inscribed the Circle DH E , whose Radius is DC = half the shorter Axis D E ; upon AD take any Point as R , between the AEquator and the Pole , and from that Point to the Evoluta OTX draw the Ray of Curvature R T , which gives the Line of Tendency RP ( Art .
IV .
) Draw likewise from the common Center C , to the Circumference of the Circle D H , a Radius C V , parallel to P R , and meeting the Circle at V ; then from the Points R , V , draw the Lines R N , V Z , perpendicular to the Axis A B. It must be observed , First , That as the Ellipse AD represents a Meridian of the oblong Spheroid , the Circle DH represents a Meridian of a Sphere in the same Plane .
Secondly , That the Point V , on the Circular Meridian , answers to the same Degree of Latitude as the Point R , upon the elliptical Meridian ; because the Lines P R , C V , being parallel to each other , and perpendicular , the one to the Ellipse and the other to the Circle ( by Construction ) the touching Planes , or Horizons of the Points R , V , will also be parallel .
Thirdly , Whence it follows that the Diminution of the Centrifugal Force ( acting against Gravity ) on account of its Obliquity to the Horizon ( Art .
X. ) of Fig. IV .
the same Degree of Latitude on the Elliptical and on the Circular Meridian , is the same in both Cases , and in the same Ratio as the absolute Centrifugal Forces represented by the Perpendiculars R N , V Z , ( Art .
IX .
) Therefore to know whether the Centrifugal Force ( whether absolute or relative ) of the Point R , upon the oblong Spheroid ADB E , be less or greater in respect to the Centrifugal Force under the common AEquator D E , than the Centrifugal Force ( whether absolute or relative ) of the correspondent PointVupon the Sphere ; nothing more is required than to see which is the longest of the two Perpendiculars , namely , RN in the oblong Spheroid , or VZ in the Sphere ; since these two Lines express the Radii of the Circles of Revolution , and consequently the absolute Quantity of the Centrifugal Forces .
4thly and lastly , That the Ratio of the Centrifugal Forces of two correspondent Points upon the oblong Spheroid ADB E , and the inscribed Sphere DHE , to the Centrifugal Force of their AEquators is the same , supposing the Sphere of any other Bigness ; and that it has been determined here of the Diameter D E , only to render the Demonstration easier , by giving the same Consequent to the Antecedents RN and V Z. For if about the Center C and with the Radius C d , the Circle dhe be described equal ( for Example ) to a Meridian of a Sphere of the same Solidity as the oblong Spheroid ADB E ; and the Radius CV be produced till it meet the Circle dh at the Point u , and uz be let fall perpendicular to the common Axis of Revolution , and parallel to V Z : It is plain , that we shall always have V Z : D C : : u z : d C , or V Z/ D C=u z/ d C , and consequently R N/ D C will have the same Ratio to V Z/ D C as to u z/ d C. Therefore , in order to demonstrate that the Centrifugal Force of a Point , taken in any Latitude upon the oblong Spheroid , is less when compared to the Centrifugal Force of the like Point , taken upon a Sphere in respect to the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator ; there is nothing more required than to show that RN &lt; V Z , because by that means we shall have R N/ D C &lt; V Z/ D C. This being observed ; from the Point R , draw the Line R I , parallel to the Axis A B , and meeting the Circle DH at K , and the Diameter DE of the AEquator at the Point I. From the Point K having let fall the Perpendicular KL=R N , upon the Axis A B , and drawn KC to the Center C ; the Question will be brought to this , viz. To know whether the Point V coincides with the Point K ; or whether it is above it towards D , or below towards H. But CK=CV=CD &gt; PR ( Art .
VIII .
) therefore CK and PR being both between the Parallels A C , R I , the greatest CK is more inclined to them than the least P R , and the Angle KCA is less than ` the Angle RPA=VC A. And since these two Angles have each of them one of their Sides coinciding with the Line A C , namely , the Side AP of the Angle RP A , and the Side AC of the Angle KC A , it follows that the Side VC of the Angle VCA=RPA &gt; KC A , will go above CK between CK and C D , and meet the Line RI at the Point G , between K and I , and the Circle DH at the Point V , which consequently quently will be above R I , between K and D. Therefore CV=CG+GV is =PR+G V , and consequently V Z , which meets RI at the Point F , is =ZF+FV=RN+F V ; and therefore RN =VZF V. Therefore RN &lt; V Z. And because the same Thing may be demonstrated in respect of any other Point , taken between the AEquator and the Pole ; and that Gravity , and consequently the Length of a Pendulum diminishes , as the Centrifugal Force increases .
Therefore &amp;c. Q. E. D. COROLLAR Y. XII .
From what has been demonstrated , and from Prop. 3 .
Art .
VIII .
it follows , that the Perpendicular which is drawn from any Point of an oval Meridian to the Axis , will be so much shorter , in Comparison to the Perpendicular drawn from the correspondent Point of an inscribed circular Meridian , as the Latitude is greater ; and consequently ( by Art .
XI .
Num. 3 .
) the Centrifugal Force will be so much the less , and Gravity so much the greater , upon the oblong Spheroid , in respect to the Centrifugal Force , and the Gravity under the AEquator .
For as the Line RP does always decrease , as the Point R is taken nearer to the Pole A , it is evident , that the Angle VCK will continually increase , in respect to the Angles VC A , KC A , as it is their Difference , and consequently that the Perpendicular VZ will be so much greater than the Perpendicular KL=R N. I pass over the Demonstration of the latter Part of his Proposition above-mentioned , which he deduces justly from his Construction , if what he says ( Num. 2 .
) be right ; because in such a Case it cannot be called in Question ; stion ; and proceed to an Observation that he makes afterwards , viz , ` ` We must take care to observe in the foregoing Propositions and Corollaries , that the Comparison is always made between two similar Points of Latitude , taken upon the two Spheroids , or upon one of the Spheroids and the Sphere , between the AEquator and the Poles , in respect to the Centrifugal Force upon the AEquator of any one of these Spheroids , or of the Sphere .
For if we only compared absolutely the Centrifugal Force of a Point of the AEquator of the one , to the Centrifugal Force of a correspondent Point of the AEquator of the other , it is plain that it wou 'd be greater upon a flatted Spheroid than upon a Sphere , or than upon an oblong Spheroid of the same Solidity , in the Ratio of the great Axis of the generating Ellipse of the flatted Spheroid , to the Diameter of the Sphere , or to the shorter Axis of the generating Ellipse of the oblong Spheroid .
And in all Likelihood , this must be the Reason that has made others , who have treated of this Subject , to imagine the very contrary of what I have demonstrated .
As Mons. Mairan considers the Earth at rest , in the Construction for his Demonstration above quoted , and afterwards observes what Effect the Centrifugal Force will have upon Bodies on its Surface , to diminish the Gravity , with which they endeavour to descend in their Line of Tendency R P : He shou 'd not only have taken notice ( as he has done ) that the whole Centrifugal Force NR is not to be substracted from the Gravity at R , as the whole Centrifugal Force CD is to be substracted from the whole Gravity at D , because of the Obliquity of RN to P R ; but he should have observed also , that the Obliquity of the Plane of the Parallel N R , in which the Centrifugal Force acts , must alter the Line of Tendency R P , and change the Direction RP into R W , somewhere between the Point P and the Center C ; for if there be a heavy Body as a Plummet , hanging by a Thread in the Line S R , or S P , the Line of Tendency which has been supposed perpendicular to the Curve ARE D , without taking in the Effect of the Centrifugal Force ; as soon as the Spheroid revolves about its Axis , the Body which wou 'd fall in the Line S R , acted upon only by one Force , namely , that of Gravity , will now be acted upon by another Force , at the same Time pushing it in the Line Ss ( which is the same as R r ) and consequently will move in the Line S r , diagonal of the Parailelogram sSR r ; or , which is all one , a Body placed at R will have its Line of Tendency in R W , as I have already shown in my first Dissertation on this Subject ; only I did not suppose the Earth a Spheroid before the diurnal Motion , and therefore made use of the Line ZV instead of the Line N R ; so that it may be objected that the Angle rSR will not be so great in a Spheroid as in a Sphere , because the Centrifugal Force which acts with the same Obliquity ( since NRP=ZV C ) is as much less in the Spheroid as NR is less than Z V : But I was aware of that , and therefore made the Angle RSr only of 5 Minutes , when it really appears to be of almost six Minutes , when the Earth is supposed spherical ; and therefore , without coming to give the exact Quantity of the said Angle , one may easily perceive , that Mons. Cassini 's Difference of the Axis and AEquatorial Diameter will produce a Figure , in which the Angle RS r , will not be less than of 5 Minutes .
Such an Obliquity , caus 'd in the Direction of Gravity , will render the oblong spheroidical Figure of the Earth impossible , because then Fluids wou 'd not have the Lines of their Gravity perpendicular to the Horizons of the Places where they are , ( supposing the Horizons of Places to be Planes touching the Curve of the Earth in those Places ) and Plumb Lines wou 'd be so far out of the Perpendicular to Lines of Level , as to make an Angle easy to be observed , as I have shown in my former Paper .
But if the same Cause be supposed to act upon the Sea to make it level , as makes heavy Bodies to fall ( which certainly must ) then indeed Lines of Level will be perpendicular to Plumb Lines , and the Level of the Sea , taken always for the Horizon of a Place , will not be a Plane touching the Earth , but cutting it towards the Poles , and consequently the Water will be carried towards the AEquator , as was before shown .
Besides , the Difference of the Action of the Centrifugal Force wou 'd not be so great between correspondent Points of the same Latitude in the Spheroid and in the Sphere ; for when the Line of Tendency RP is by the Centrifugal Force changed into R W , the Point R upon the Spheroid does no longer correspond in Latitude with the Point V upon the Sphere , but must be taken nearer to V , so that the Line RW may become parallel to V C , and RWA=VC A. If it be alleged here , that Mons. Mairan supposes the Earth in Motion , and takes in the Effect of the Centrifugal Force , when he makes the Line of Tendency to be R P ; I answer , that if he had considered the Earth as revolving upon its Axis , he wou 'd not have made VC the Line of Tendency of a spherical Earth in Motion , since it is the Line of Tendency of such an Earth at rest .
In Mons. Mairan 's Observation above-mentioned , he says , ` ` that we are not to compare the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator of an oblong Spheroid , with the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator of a Sphere , or at the AEquator of a flatted Spheroid of the same Solidity ; allowing that then it wou 'd be greater in the Sphere , and still greater in the flatted Spheroid : but only the Centrifugal Forces in several Latitudes upon the same ` Figure .
' ' But I beg Leave to differ from him for the following Reasons .
First , Because the Force of Gravity is not the same at the AEquator of the flatted Spheroid , as it is at the AEquator of the Sphere , or as it is at the AEquator of the oblong Spheroid .
Secondly , Because it is not the same in different Latitudes , in either of the Spheroids .
( See Sir Isaac Newton Lib. 3 .
Prop. 19 and 20 .
) And Mons. Mairan 's Way of arguing will only serve , in Case the Gravity shou 'd be the same in all the Points of the Surface of the Earth in his Figure , and also in the two other Figures .
For Example , let the uniform Gravity be called g ; and First , let the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator of the flatted Spheroid be called c+ 2 ; and the Centrifugal Force in any Latitude , as for Example , the Latitude of Paris ( as it is diminished on Account of a shorter Co-sine of Latitude , and likewise on Account of its Obliquity to the Line of Tendency , ) be called c+2 l ; the Difference of the Diminution of Gravity at Paris , and at the AEquator will be ~g~c+2~g~c+2l = l. Secondly , Let the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator of the Sphere be called c+ 1 , and the Centrifugal Force at the Latitude of Paris be called c+1 ~l +m the Difference of the Diminution of Gravity at Paris and at the AEquator in a spherical Earth , will be ~g ~c +1 ~g ~c +1 ~l +m=l+ m. Thirdly , Let the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator of the oblong Spheroid be called c , and the Centrifugal Force at Paris be called c ~l +m+ n ; the Difference of the Diminution of Gravity at Paris , and at the AEquator , in an oblong spheroidical Earth , will be gc ~g ~c ~l +m+n=l+m+ n. Now , if Gravity.shou 'd in every Case be equal to g , it is evident , that the shortening of Pendulums , at the AEquator , wou 'd be greater in the oblong Spheroid , than in the Sphere , or in the flatted Spheroid ; because as the Lengths of Pendulums diminish with the Gravity , those Lengths will be at Paris and at the AEquator , when compared , as g ~c +2l to g ~c +2 in the flatted Spheroid ; as g ~c +1 ~l +m to g ~c +1 in the Sphere , and as g ~c ~l +m+n to gc in the oblongSpheroid ; and consequently , fromwhat M. Mairan has demonstrated this Ratio of g ~c ~l +m+n to g c , being greater than either of the others , the Pendulums must be shortened in the oblong Spheroid .
But as the Force of Gravity is less at the AEquator of the flatted Spheroid , than at the AEquator of the Sphere , or of the oblong Spheroid of the same Solidity : let us express its Quantity in the three Cases by g s , g ; and g+ s , and we shall then find the Lengths of the Pendulums , at the AEquator of the three Solids , as gs ~c + 2 , g ~c + 1 , and g+s c ; consequently the Lengths of Pendulums will be greatest at the AEquator of the oblong Spheroid , because g+sc is the greatest Quantity .
Lastly , To compare the Lengths of Pendulums at the AEquator of the oblong Spheroid , thus found , with their Lengths at the Latitude of Paris upon the said Spheroid Let us express the Excess of Gravity at the AEquator , whereby it is greater than at Paris ( because in this Figure , Paris is farther from the Center of the Earth , than the AEquator , by 1/ 190 Part ) by the Letter s , and the Excess of the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator , above that Part of it which acts directly against Gravity at Paris , by l+m+ n , the Gravity at Paris by g , and the Centrifugal Force at the AEquator by c ; then g+sc will still represent the diminished Gravity , and answer to the Length of Pendulums at the AEquator , whilst g ~c ~l +m+n or gc+l+m+n represents the diminished Gravity , and consequently the Length of Pendulums at Paris .
If s be equal to l+m + n , Pendulums will be as long at the AEquator as at Paris ; and if s be greater than l+m+ n , Pendulums will be longer at the AEquator .
But making all possible Allowance , in Favour of Mons. Mairan 's Hy pothesis , no Calculation will bring l+m+n to be greater than , or ever equal to s. Therefore Mons. Mairan 's Demonstrations , above-mentioned , are of no Force to prove the Earth to be an oblong Spheroid .
And now , I think , I have answered all that relates to the Figure of the Earth in Mons. Mairan 's Dissertation ; in showing .
That his Conjectures can neither be supported by those Physical Principles which Sir Isaac Newton has Mathematically deduced from unquestioned questioned Observations and Experiments accurately made ; nor even by those Principles which He ( M. Mairan ) has assumed to serve his intended Purpose That his Demonstrations relating to the Difference of the Action of the Centrifugal Force , are of no Service to him , for reconciling the Experiments made on Pendulums , with Mons. Cassini 's Measures ; -because , when applied to Sir Isaac Newton 's Principles , they will make Pendulums longer at the AEquator than at Paris , and when applied to Mons. Mairan 's own Principles , they will make them a whole Inch shorter at the AEquator than at Paris , contrary to all Observations , which , at a Medium , make Pendulums but about two Lines or 166/ 1000 of an Inch longer at the AEquator than at Paris .
That he has built his Demonstrations upon a wrong Notion of Gravity And that he has not considered what is most material in the Effect of the Centrifugal Force , acting on Bodies descending by their Gravity , between the AEquator and the Poles , namely , the Alteration of their Line of Direction , which wou 'd make them fall out of the Perpendicular towards the AEquator .
I shall add one more Philosophical Argument , given me by a Friend , to whom I communicated my Thoughts on this Subject ; because it is wholly independent on those Principles of Philosophy , concerning which , some of the Gentlemen that believe the oblong spheroidical Figure of the Earth , and the English Philosophers , are not yet agreed ; and it is this .
If the Earth was of an oblong spheroidical Figure , higher at the Poles than the AEquator ; the Axis of its Revolution , wou 'd either to thro ' one of its short Diameters , or be continually changing unless the said Axis did exactly coincide with the Axis of the Figure .
DEMONSTRATIO N. Suppose such an oblong Figure as Aa* fixed to the Axis Pp at the Center C , but capable of moving freely round it towards P or towards p , yet so as to be obliged to move with the Axis , when it is turned round .
Suppose now the Poles P and p to be fixed , and the Body , thus constituted , to be turned swiftly round the Axis P p ; then if the Angle ACP be oblique , and the Figure ADaE be oblong , the Parts AC and Ca will acquire a Centrifugal Force , which will enlarge the Angle pC A , till it comes to be a right one .
Besides this , a Velocity will be generated in the Motion , while A is going towards the Perpendicular ~ C , which will make it go farther on towards P , as to B , with a Motion which will after that be retarded , till the Centrifugal Force has Strength enough to send it back again the contrary Way ; and so it will move continually with a reciprocal Motion , like the Oscillation of a Pendulum ; and if a little of this Motion be lost at every Oscillation , then the oblong Figure ADaE will at last move quietly about its lesser Axis DE coinciding with P p. If Aa did not at first exactly coincide with P p , the Centrifugal Force will have the above-mentioned Effect ; and that this is not the Case in the Earth is more than probable , because the unequal Distribution of Sea and Land , besides the Phenomenon of the Tides must make the Axis of its Gravity , and consequently the Axis of its Revolution , to differ from the Axis of the oblong Spheroid , if the Earth had such a Figure ; without considering that every Earth-quake wou 'd alter so nice an AEquilibrium , which once lost , wou 'd never be recovered again .
* Fig. V. To leave nothing unexamined , relating to the Controversy , I have again considered the Measures and Observations , mentioned in the Account of the Meridian drawn thro ' France , in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy , for the Year 1720 ; and I find them to want a great deal of the Accuracy required in so nice a Point , as determining the different Lengths of Degrees upon the Surface of the Earth .
To prove my Assertion , I beg that the Reader will examine the following Tables , whereby it appears , that if any thing certain can be deduced from the said Observations and Measures , ( either taken as they are , or reduced to the Level of the Sea , by the Rules given by Mons. Cassini* ) it will be in Favour of Sir Isaac Newton 's Figure of the Earth , rather than theirs .
In the following Table , the first Column gives the Names of Places ; the second , the Distances from Paris , according to the Measures taken by the French Gentlemen ; the third , the Latitudes observed by the same ; the fourth , the Latitudes , such as the measured Distances will give them , supposing the Earth spherical ; the fifth , the Differences between these and the Latitudes observed , expressed in Seconds of a Degree , where when the Latitude computed , exceeds the Latitude observed , the Letter N ( North ) shows that Difference to be in Favour of Mons. Cassini 's Figure , and the contrary Difference marked by the Letter S ( South ) is in Favour of Sir Isaac Newton 's Figure .
* Memoirs for the Year 1720 .
Vol. I. P. 1 .
Ch. 13 .
Names of Distances from Latitudes obLatitudes in a Differences in Places .
Paris measured .
served .
spherical Earth Seconds .
computed from the measured Distances .
I. II .
III .
IV .
V. Toises .
Dunkirk .
125552 51~ 2~ 25~1/ 2 51~ 2~ 25~1/ 2 0~ Amiens .
60370 49 53 48 49 53 48 0~ Sourdon .
4997~1/ 2 49 42 42 49 42 52,1 10,1 N Paris .
48 50 10 48 50 20,3 10,3 N Malvoisine .
18838 48 30 47 48 30 32,1 14,9 S Vouson .
67962 47 39 17 47 38 53,6 23,4 S Bourges .
100192 47 4 31 47 04 58,7 27,7 N S. Sauvier .
139934 46 23 24 46 23 12 12,0 S Croc .
169540 45 51 43 45 52 4,6 21,6 N Bort .
196484 45 23 27 45 23 45,2 18,2 N Aurillac .
223606 44 55 13 44 55 14,5 1,5 N Rodes .
256575 44 20 54 44 20 35,1 19,9 S Alby .
280612 43 55 32 43 55 19 13,0 S Carcassone .
321430 43 12 56 43 12 24,5 31,5 S Collioure .
360604 42 31 13~ 42 31 13,8 0 .
In this Table it is to be observed that there is an equal Number of Differences marked N ( North ) and S ( South ) and if the Differences on each Side be added together , there will be 89~,4 on the North Side , and 114~7 on the South : This last agrees best with Sir Isaac Newton 's Figure , which must be supposed for the Correction of so great a Difference .
In the next Table , the first Column gives the Names of Places ; the second , the Latitudes observed ; the third , the Distances in the Meridian from Paris , reduced to the Level of the Sea ; the fourth , the Differences of the second Column expressed in Seconds of a Degree ; the fifth , the Differences of the Numbers in the third Column ; and the sixth , the Measure of a Degree by the fourth and fifth Columns compared .
I. II .
III .
IV .
V. VI .
Names of Places .
Seconds of a Degree .
Toises .
Toises .
Toises .
Dunkirk .
5~~ 2~ 19~ 125454 Amiens .
49 53 56 60444 4103~ 65010 57040 Clermont .
49 22 57 31028 1859 29416 56965 The R. Observatory .
48 50 10 0 1967 31028 56787 Vouson .
47 39 17 67959 4253 67959 57525 ~ S. Sauvier .
46 23 24 139937 4553 71978 56912 Croc .
45 51 43 169539 1901 29602 56058 Bort .
45 23 46 196480 1677 26941 57834 Aurillac .
44 55 13 223616 1713 27136 57028 Rodes .
44 20 53 256474 2060 32858 57422 Alby .
43 55 32 280612 1521 24138 57131 Carcassone 43 12 55 321430 2557 40818 57468 Collioure .
42 31 13 360614 2502 39184 56380 In this Table in the third Column , over-against St. Sauvier , the Number which was 139944 is corrected to make it 139937 , to the Advantage of the oblong Figure .
In the sixth Column , the Numbers appear so irregular , as to be unfit to decide this Controversy .
Then if a Comparison be made between Dunkirk , St. Sauvier ( which is very near the Middle of France , and almost in the Meridian of Paris ) and Collioure , the Measurement is absolutely in Favour of Sir Isaac Newton 's Theory ; the mean Degree between Dunkirk and St. Sauvier being larger by about 64 Toises , than between S. Sauvier and Collioure ; and to reduce them even to an Equality , there must be a greater Alteration made in the Situation of those three Places , than it is reasonable to suppose their Observations to be capable of admitting .
Here follows the Comparison .
Dunkirk and Collioure 57061 Dunkirk and Paris 56960 Paris and Collioure A mean Degree is 57097 Dunkirk and S. Sauvier 57090,4 S. Sauvier and Collioure 57026,5 According to Mons. Picard , 57060 To conclude , I will propose a Method of observing the Figure of the Shadow of the Earth in Lunar Eclipses , whereby the Difference between the Diameters in the oblong spheroidical Figure , if there be such an one as Mons. Cassini affirms ( viz. of 96 to 95 ) may be discovered .
Let P AE P AE * represent the Earth , seen from the Sun at the Time of the Summer Solstice ; it is evident , that the same Figure will express the Section of the Earth 's Shadow at the Moon 's Distance , as seen from the Earth .
IfEE represents the Ecliptic , AE AE will be the shortest Diameter of the Section ; and if LL be taken for the Moon 's Way , in a total and central Eclipse of the Moon , by observing the Time which is spent in the Passage of the Center of the Moon , thro ' the Shadow , and reducing that Time to Seconds of a Degree of a great Circle of the Heavens , we shall have the least Diameter of the Shadow .
Again , let the same Letters ~ represent the same Things , only here the Section of the Shadow is such , as the Earth will cast at the AEquinox , and the Eclipse of the Moon is here supposed partial , its Center just touching the Shadow .
When the Moon 's Center is got to c , if the Latitude of its Center or its Distance from the Ecliptic be observed , we shall have the Length cC nearly equal to the longest Semi-diameter of the Shadow .
Now , comparing cC* in this Figure to LC* in the former ( the Difference between cC and CP ( Fig. 7 .
) and between CL and C AE ( Fig. 6 .
) not being worth notice ) they ought to be to one another , as 96 to 95 , which in such a Shadow will give a Difference of about 25~ at a Medium , sensible enough to be observed , notwithstanding the Penumbra .
If therefore those A* Fig. VI .
~ Fig. VII .
* Fig. VII .
* Fig. VI .
stronomers who have Instruments nice enough , and sufficient Skill in the Management of them , to take Angles to 3 or 4 Seconds of a Degree , will observe what I have been mentioning in total and partial Eclipses of the Moon ; by such Observations they will easily convince us , that the Figure of the Earth is such as Mons. Cassini supposes it , or convince him that he has been mistaken .
The Semi-diameter of the Earth 's Shadow , when the Earth is in Perihelio , and the Moon in Apogaeo is 38~ , or 2280~ , without considering the Increase of the Shadow , on account of the Atmosphere of the Earth , which wou 'd make it 39~ or 2340~ ( allowing one Second for a Mile ; ) and the Semi-diameter of the Shadow , when the Earth is in Aphelio , and the Moon in Perigaeo is 46~ , 20~ , or 2780~ , which increased on account of the Atmosphere of the Earth , will bring it to 47~ , 20~ or 2840~ .
Now if the Proportion of 95 to 96 be taken in both Cases you will have these Analo{95 : 96 : : 2340~ : 2364~~ 6 } gies , So that 2364~,6 95 : 96 : : 2840~ : 2869~,8 2340~ = 24~,6 will be the Difference of the Semi-diameters , when the Section of the Shadow is the least , and 2869~,8 2840~ = 29~,8 will be the Difference of Semi-diameters , when the Section of the Shadow is the greatest ; the Sum of those Differences 24~,6 + 29~,8 halved , will give the Difference , when the Section of the Shadow is at a Medium = 27~ 4 ; from which if we take 2~,4 because in Fig. 7 .
Cc is a little less than C P , and in Fig. 6 .
LC is something greater than AE C , we shall have Cc in Fig. 7 .
to compare with LC in Fig. 6 .
which will exceed it by 25~ , if Mons. Cassini 's Figure of the Earth be the true one .

