XV.-Researches in Physical Astronomy .
By J. W. LUBBOCK , Esq. V.P. and Treas .
R.S. Read May 19 , 1831 .
On the Theory of the Moon .
THE method pursued by CLAIRAUT in the solution of this important problem of Physical Astronomy , consists in the integration of the differential equations furnished by the principles of dynamics , upon the hypothesis that in the gravitation of the celestial bodies the force varies inversely as the square of the distance , and in which the true longitude of the moon is the independent variable ; the tinle is thus obtained in terms of the true longitude , and by the reversion of series the longitude is afterwards obtained in terms of the time , which is necessary for the purpose of forming astronomical tables .
But while on the one hand this method possesses the advantage , that the disturbing function can be developed with somewhat greater facility in terms of the true longitude of the moon than in terms of the mean longitude , yet on the other hand , the differential equations in which the true longitude is the independent variable are far more complicated than those in which the time is the independent variable .
The latter equations are used in the planetary theory ; so that the method of CLAIRAUT has the additional inconvenience , that while the lunar theory is a particular case of the problem of the three bodies , one system of equations is used in this case , and another in the case of the planets .
The method of CLAIRAUT has been adopted , however , by MAYER , by LAPLACE , and by M. DAMOISEAU .
The last-mentioned author has arranged his results with remarkale clearness , so that any part of his processes may be easily verified by any one who does not shrink from this gigantic undertaking ; and the immense labour which this method requires , when all sensible quantities are retained , may be seen in his invaluable memoir .
Mr. BRICE BRONWIN has recently communicated to the Society a lunar theory , in which the same method is adopted .
Having reflected much upon the difficulties of this problem , I am led to believe that the integration of the differential equations in which the time is the independent variable , is at least as easy as the method hitherto , I think , solely employed , and I now have the honour to submit to the Society a lunar theory founded upon this integration , which is in fact merely an extension of the equations given in my Researches in Physical Astronomy , already printed , by embracing those terms which , in consequence of the magnitude of the eccentricity of the moon 's orbit , are sensible ; and the suppression of those , on the other hand , which are insensible on account of the great distance of the sun , the disturbing body .
By means of the Table which I have given ( Table II .
) , the developments may all be effected at once with the greatest facility .
The first column contains the indices , which I have employed to distinguish the inequalities .
The numbers in the second column are the indices affixed by M. DAMOISEAU , in the M6m .
sir la Th6or .
de la Lune , p. 547 .
to the inequalities of longitude .
t* =nt nt , x= cnt W , z= nt- , , y =-gnt v. 0. .
0 21 45 2t-3 x 42 73 2t--3xz 1 30 2t-j 22 46 2t+ 3x 43. .
2t+3x+z 21x 23 21 2x+z 44 26 3xz 3 31 2t--x+ 24 53 2t--2x-z 45. .
2t-3x+z 4 32 2t+x 25 54 2t+2x+z 46. .
2t+3x--z 5 16 z ยง 26 20 2x-z 47. .
2x+2z 6 33 2t-z 27 51 2t-2x+z 48 75 2t-2x--2z 7 34 2t+z 28 52 2t+2x-z 49 .
2t+2x +2z 82 2x 29 23 x+2z '50. .
2x-2z 9 35 2t-2x 30 59 2t--x-2z 51. .
2t-2x+2z 10 36 2t+2x 31. .
2t+x+2z 52 .
2t+2x-2z 11 19 x +z 32 22 x-2z 53. .
x3z 12 41 2t-xz 33 61 2t-x+ 2z 54 .
2tx -3 13 42 2t+ x+z 34 60 2t+ x-2z 55. .
2t +x+3z 14 18 x -z 35. .
3z 56 .
x-3z 15 39 2tx+z 36. .
2t-3z 57. .
2t-x+3z 16 40 2t+xc-z 37. .
2t+3z 58. .
2t+x-3z 17 17 2z 38 9 4x 59 4z 18 43 2t-2z 39 67 2t-4x 60. .
2t-4z 19 44 2t+2 z 40. .
2t+4x 61. .
2t+4z 20 4,3x 41 27 3 x+z 62 3 2y A similar theorem exists with the quantity 8 .
d , and it will readily be seen that all the developments I R , .
r / ( ~ ( d ) and .
( R may effected very easily by means of Table II .
Similally , if Y ' denote the variation due to the disturbance of the earth by the moon , rR=_ a ; , ( d dR / d R\ R= -a , d. ( r ) r , -d .
-ax da Ir dt l In dR the terms which arise from a)d.r o4 ( dR dr a. + ( dR d.s da(d ) 'r 'd are multiplied by the small quantity m. Considering in r ' d and R the terms multiplied by-a , \I(dR I dR dR=2 R , rd R2R considering the terms multiplied by a , ( dR dR r ( d =3 R , d ' ) =3eR Hence the value of r ' ( d\ and .
r ' ( d^ ) may at once be inferred from R and 8 R. I reserve the formation of these developments and of the final equations for determining the coefficients of the different inequalities to another opportunity .
These equations are voluminous when all sensible quantities are taken into account ; but they are formed with so much facility by means of Table II .
, that error is not likely to arise in this part of the process .
Error is more , I think , to be apprehended in the terms of R multiplied by the cubes and fourth powers of the eccentricities ; the rest have been verified by an independent method .
See p. 39 .
276 On the Precession of the Equinoxes , supposing the Earth to revolve in a resisting medium .
In my last paper on Physical Astronomy , I gave expressions for the variations of the six constants which enter into the solution of this problem ; upon the hypothesis that the body revolves in a medium devoid of resistance .
If we suppose a plane to revolve in a resisting medium , about an axis perpendicular to itself , the resistance of the medium can produce no effect , and the phenomena will only be modified in a slight degree by the friction of the plane surface against the medium .
If , however , the inclination of the plane on the axis of rotation differs from 90 ?
, the effect of the resistance of the medium becomes sensible , tending to retard the motion of the plane ; the effect being greatest when the axis of rotation is parallel to the plane .
This principle is used in some machines , as in self-playing organs , to regulate the motion by means of a vane , of which the inclination to its axis of rotation can be varied at pleasure .
In the case of a sphere , whatever be the direction of the axis of rotation , this effect of the resistance is insensible ; and also in the case of a solid of revolution when the axis of rotation coincides with the axis of the figure , but not otherwise .
If the difference of the latitude of the axis of rotation from 900 ( supposing the equator from which the latitudes are reckoned to coincide with the equator of the figure ) be at any time small , the mathematical investigation appears to show , that the effect of the resistance of the medium is to diminish continually this difference .
In the case of the earth , thisquantity is now insensible ; but as the probability is small that this was the case in the first instance , may this circumstance arise from the resistance of a medium of small density acting for a great length of time ?
and can the change of climate on the surface of the earth , a change of which the probability is indicated by many geological phenomena , be explained in the same manner ?
It may be remarked , however , that the effect of a resisting medium in diminishing the eccentricities of the orbits of the planets is of the same order , and that these , although for the most part small , are far from having reached zero .
The tendency of a resisting medium is also to diminish the majori axes of the orbits of the planets ; these effects , if they exist , will probably be most sensible in the case of comets , not only on account of their great eccentricity , but also on account of their small density , in the same manner as a flock of any light substance is wafted by the gentlest wind and prevented from reaching the ground .
The eccentricity of the orbit of the comet of HALLEY in 1759 is known with great accuracy , and as its perturbations have been calculated with great care by MM .
DAMOISEAU and DE PONTECOULANT , the eccentricity which it should have in 1835 , when it will again visit this part of space , unless it be affected by a resisting medium , is also known with great precision .
It is scarcely probable , however , that any change will be perceptible in one revolution , even if the cause exists ; but the succeeding revolutions of this body will no doubt throw light upon this question .
The ratio of the change of the semimajor axis to the change of the eccentricity , due to the action of the resisting medium , is known , being a function of the eccentricity , and independent of the constant , which depends upon the density of the medium ; this ratio therefore may also tend to elucidate the question , if it can be determined by observation with sufficient accuracy .
Let x ' , y ' , ' be the co-ordinates of any point P corresponding to the elementary portion of the surface d s , and referred to axes passing through the centre of gravity and revolving with the body in motion .
Let P be the point of which the co-ordinates are x ' , y ' , z , AP the direction of the normal at the point P , BP perpendicular to the axis of instantaneous rotation , and cutting it in B , and CP the direction of motion of the point P. I suppose the resistance of the medium to create a force proportional to v2 cos APCd s , acting in the direction of the normal AP upon the point P , v being the velocity of the point P. Suppose the straight line MOP L to N revolve about an axis passing through O,.M 6L and perpendicular to it , and in the direcR tion L N , the action of the resisting medium will be in the direction N L , on one side only of the line 0 L , upon all the points P between 0 and L , and upon all the points between MP it will be in the contrary direction R M , and on the other side of the line .
Now , let LSMT be the section of az cylinder revolving about an axis , passing p through O perpendicular to the plane LSM T , and let the cylinder revolve in\ the direction L N. The action of the .
/ ... .
resisting medium will be in the direction Z P , perpendicular to OP upon all the / points P between L S ; and in the con ... .
trary direction KP upon all the points , P between T M. These remarks show that in what follows , the integrations must not be made throughout the whole surface of the body revolving : this consideration however does not affect the nature of the results .
The equation to a plane perpendicular to the axis of rotation , and passing through the centre of gravity of the body , is px+qy+rz= 0 .
Let the body revolving be a spheroid of which the equation is x +y2 +2 ( 1 + e2 ) =a ( 1 + e2 ) The equation to the tangent plane to the spheroid at the point x y , z is xx + yy ' + zsz1 ( 1 + e ) =a ( l + e2 ) The equations to the planes from whose intersection the line PB results , are ( q -ry ' ) +y(r x-pz )+ ( p yq x ) = pa + qy+ rz =D D being a constant .
The equations to the line PC are x{r(qz'-ry ' ) -p(py'-qx ' ) } +y { r ( rxt-pz ' ) ( py ' q ' ) } =0 x{q ( q ' ry ) -p ( r ' -p z ) }+ { q ( py qx ' ) r ( rxr -p ' ) }= 0 and neglecting p2 , q2 , p q , x ( q z-r y ) =y(p '-rxt ) x ( qy ' + px ' ) = ( pz ' rx ' ) The equations to the direction of motion of the point P are x ( p rx ' ) =y ( ry ' qr ' ) s ( q xp y ' ) =z ( r y ' q ' ) Cos. angle , which the direction of motion of P makes with the normal to the surface or cos APC x ' ( ry ' qz ' ) + y ' ( pz ' rx ) + z ' ( 1 + et ) ( qx ' -py ' ) I{ ( ry'qzf ' ) +( rx2 t ( ) + ( y p ' ) } / { + y'+ z(1 + 2e ) } M The notation is the same as p. 20 , except that the accents at foot of x , , y , z are omitted .
2o2 281

