XXII .
" Indications of the Paths takeni by the Nerve-currents as they traverse the caudate Nerve-cells of the Spinal Cord and Encephalon1 .
" By LIONEL S. BEALE , M.B. , F.R.S. , F.R.C.P. , Professor of Physiology and of General and Morbid Anatomy in King 's College , London ; Physician to the Hospital , &amp;c. Received May 18 , 1864 .
Although the caudate nerve-vesicles , or cells existing in the spinial cord , medulla oblongata , and in m any parts of the brain , have been described by the most distinguished modern anatomists , there yet remains much to be ascertained with reference to their internal structure , connexions , and PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
( I r^ I1 fabx 700 .
Scale , T-ev of an English Inch I. IX 700 .
Large candate nerve cell , wsith smaller cells and nerve fibres , from a thin transverse section of thelower part of the grey matter of the medulla oblongata of a young dog The specimen had been soaked for some weeks in acetic acid and glycerine .
The lines of dark granules resulting from the action of the acid are seen passing through the very substance of the cell in very definite directions .
Thus the cell is the point where lines from several distant parts intersect ( Diagram .
Fig. 2 ) .
It is probable that each of these lines is but a portion of a complete circuit ( see Diagram in Fig. 3 ) .
A , A , A , large fibres which leave the cell .
B , a fibre from another cell , dividing into finer fibres , exhibiting several lines of granules .
C , C , C , fibres from a younger candate nerve vesicle .
D , fine and flattened dark-bordered fibres .
E , three fine nerve fibres running together in a matrix of connective tissue .
F , F , F , capillary vessels .
1 , .
S. B. del .
1863 .
mode of development .
In this paper I propose to describe some points of interest in connexion with their structure .
In the first place , however , I would remark that there are neither ' cells ' nor ' vesicles ' in the ordinary acceptance of these words , for there is no proper investing membrane , neither are there 'cell-contents ' as distinguished from the menmbrane or capsule ; in fact the so-called cell consists of soft solid matter throughout .
The nerve-fibres are not prolonged from the nucleus or from the outer part of the cell , but they are continuous with the very material of which the substance of the ' cell ' itself is composed , and they are , chemically speaking , of the same nature .
So that in these caudate cells we have but to recognize the so-called 'nucleus ' ( germinal matter ) and matter around this ( formed material ) which passes into the 'fibres , ' which diverge in various directions from the cell : see Plate III .
( fig. 1 ) .
At the outer part of many of these C cells , ' usually collected together in one mass , are a numl)er of granules .
These are not usually seen in the young cells , and they probably result from changes taking place in the matter of which the substance of the cell is composed .
But it is not proposed to discuss this question in the presenit paper .
My special object in this communication is to direct attention to a peculiar appearance I have observed in these cells , which eniables me to draw some very important inferences with reference to the connexions and action of these very elaborate and most important elements of the nervous mechanism .
In some very thin sections of the cord and medulla oblongata of a young dog , which had been very slowly acted upon by dilute acetic acid , the appearances represented in Plate III .
( fig. 1 ) were observed .
Subsequently , similar appearances , though not so distinct , have been demonstrated in the caudate nerve-vesicles of the grey matter of the brain of the dog and cat , as well as of the human subject .
I have no doubt that the arrangement is constant , and examination of my specimens will probably satisfy observers that the appearance is not accidental .
Each fibre ( a , a , a ) passing from the cell exhibits in its substance several lines of graniules .
The appearance is as if the fibre were composed of several very fine fibres imbedded in a soft transparent matrix , which fibres , by being stretchled , had been broken transversely at very short intervals .
At the point where each large fibre spreads out to form the body of the cell , these lines diverge from one another and pursue different courses through the very substance of the cell , in front of , and behind , in fact around the nucleus .
Lines can be traced from each fibre across the cell into every other fibre which passes away from it .
The actual appearance is represented in Plate III .
; and in the diagram , fig. 2 , a plan of a 'cell , ' showing the course of a few of the most important of these lines which traverse its substance , is giveni .
I do not conceive that these lines represent fibres structurally distinct from one another , but I conisider the appearance is due to some difference in composition of the material forming the substance of the cell in these particular lines ; and it seems to me that the course which the lines take permits of but one explanation of the appearance .
Supposing nerve-currents to be passing along the fibres through the substance of the cell , they would follow the exact lines here represented ; and it must be noticed that these lines are more distinct and more numerous in fully-formed than in young cells .
They are , I think , lines which result from the frequent passage of nerve-currents in these definite directions .
Now I have already advanced arguments in favour of the existence of complete nervous circuits , based upon new facts resulting from observations upon a , the peripheral arrangement of the nerves in various tissues* ; b , the course of individual fibres in compound trunks , and the mode of branching and division of nerve-fibrest ; and c , the structure of ganglioncellst .
I venture to consider these lines across the substance of the caudate nerve-cells as another remarkable fact in favour of the existence of such circuits ; for while the appearance would receive a full and satisfactory explanation upon such an hypothesis , I doubt if it be possible to suggest another explanation which would seem even plausible .
Nor would it , I think , be possible to adduce any arguments which would so completely upset the view that nerve-force passes centrifugally from one Fig. 2 .
A diagram of such a cell as that represented in Plate III .
( fig. 1 ) , showing the principal lines diverging from the fibres at the point where they become continuous with the substance of the cell .
These lines may be traced from one fibre across the cell , and may be followed into every otherfibre which proceeds from the cell .
cell , as from a centre , towards its peripheral destination , as this fact .
So far from the fibres radiating from one cell , or from the nucleus as some suppose , in different directions , all the fibres which reach the cell are complex , and contain lines which pass uninterruptedly through it into other fibres .
Instead of the cell being the point from which nerve-currents radiate in different directions along single fibres , it is the common point where a number of circuits having the most different distribution intersect , cross , or decussate .
The so-called cell is a part of a circuit , or rather of a great number of diFerent circuits .
I conclude that at first the formed material of the cell is quite soft and almost homogeneous , but that as currents traverse it in certain definite lines , difference in texture and composition is produced in these lines , and perhaps after a time they become more or less separated from one another , and insulated by the intervening material .
It may perhaps be carrying speculation upon the meaning of minute anatomical facts too far to suggest that a nerve-current traversing one of these numerous paths or channels through the cell may influence all the lines running more or less parallel to it ( fig. 3 ) .
I have ascertained that fibres emanating from different caudate nervecells situated at a distance from one another ( fig. 4 , a , a ) at length meet and run on together as a compound fibre ( b , b , b ) , so that I am compelled to conclude ( and the inference is in harmony with facts derived from observations of a different kind ) that every single nerve-fibre entering into the formationi of the trunk of a spinal nerve , or single fibre passing from a 2F 2 Fig. 3 .
/ &lt; ~~~~~~~~ ~d Diagram to show the possible relation to one another of various circuits traversing a single caudate nerve-cell .
a may be a circuit connecting a peripheral sensitive surface with the cell ; b may be the path of a motor impulse ; c and d other circuits passing to other cells or other peripheral parts .
A current passing along the fibre a might induce currents in the three other fibres , b , c , d , which traverse the same cell .
ganglion , really consists of several fibres coming from different and probably very distant parts .
In other words , I am led to suppose that a single darkbordered fibre , or rather its axis-cylinder , is the common channel for the passage of many different nerve-currents having different destinations .
It is common to a portion of a great many different circuits .
The fibres which result from the subdivision of the large fibre which leaves the cell become exceedingly fine ( the moo0oth of an inch in diameter or less ) , and pursue a very long course before they run parallel with other fibres .
As the fibres which have the same destination increase in number , the compound trunk becomes gradually thicker and more distinct .
The several individual fibres coalesce and form one trunk , or axis-cylinder , around which the protective white substance of Schwann collects .
At the periphery the subdivision of the dark-bordered fibre again occurs , until peripheral fibres as fine as the central component fibres result * .
Although it may be premature to devise diagrams of the actual arrangement , if I permit myself to attempt this , I shall be able to express the inferences to which I have been led up to the present time in a far more intelligible manner than I could by description .
But I only offer these schemes as rough suggestions , and feel sure that further observation will Fig. 4 .
b_ Diagram to show the course of the fibres which leave the caudate nerve-cells , a , a are parts of two nerve-cells , and two entire cells are also represented .
Fibres from several different cells unite to form single nerve-fibres , b , b , b. In passing towards the periphery these fibres divide and subdivide ; the resulting subdivisions pass to different destinations .
The fine fibres resulting from the subdivision of one of the caudate processes of a nerve-cell may help to form a vast number of dark-bordered nerves , but it is most certain that no single process everforms one entire axis-cylinder .
enable me to modify them and render them more exact .
The fibres would in nature be infinitely longer than represented in the diagrams .
The cell below c ( fig. 5 ) may be one of the caudate nerve-cells in the anterior root of a spinal nerve , that above b one of the cells of the ganglion upon the posterior root , and a the periphery .
I will not attempt to describe the course of these fibres until many different observations upon which 1 am now engaged are further advanced , but I have already demonstrated the passage of the fibres from the ganglion-cell into the dark-bordered fibres as represented in the diagram .
The peculiar appearance I have demonstrated in the large caudate cells , taken in connexion with the fact urged by me in several papers , that no true termination or commencement has yet been demonstrated in the case of any nerve , seems to me to favour the conclusion that the action of a nervous apparatus results from varying intensities of continuous currents which are constantly passing along the nerves during life , rather than from the sudden interruption or completion of nerve-curreints .
So far from any arrangement having been demonstrated in connexion with any nervous structure which would permit the sudden interruption and completion of a current , anatomical observation demonstrates the structural continuity of all nerve-fibres with nerve-cells , and , indirectly through these cells , with one another .
Fig. 5 .
b Diagram to show possible relation of fibres from caudate nerve-cells , and fibres from cells in ganglia , as , for example , the ganglia on the posterior roots .
a is supposed to be the periphery ; the cell above b one of those in the ganglion .
The three caudate cells resemble those in the grey matter of the cord , medulla oblongata , and brain .
I venture to conclude that the typical anatonical arrangement of a nervoUs mechanism is not a cord with two ends-a point of origin and a terminal extremity , but a cord without an end-a continuous circuit .
The peculiar structure of the caudate nerve-cells , which I have described , renders it , I think , very improbable that these cells are sources of nervous power , while , on the other hand , the structure , mode of growth , and indeed the whole life-history of the rounded ganglion-cells render it very probable that they perform such an office .
These two distinct classes of nerve-cells , in connexion with the nervous system , which are very closely related , and probably , through nerve-fibres , structurally continuous , seem to perform very different functions , the one originating currents , while the other is concerned more particularly with the distribution of these , and of secondary currents induced by them , in very many different directions .
A current originiating in a ganglion-cell would probably give rise to many induced currents as it traversed a caudate nerve-cell .
It seems probable that nerve-currents emanating from the rounded ganglion-cells may be constantly traversing the inlnumerable circuits in every part of the nervous system , and that nervous actions are duie to a disturbance perhaps a variation in the intensity of the currents , which m-iust immediately result from the slightest change occurring in any part of the nerve-fibre , as well as from any physical or chenmical alteration takinog place in the nerve-centres , or in peripheral nervous organs .

