VI .
" O n the Distribution of Nerves to the Elementary Fibres of Striped Muscle .
" By LIONEL S. 13EALE , M.B. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physiology and of General and Morbid Anatomny in King 's College , London , and Physician to King 's College Hospital .
Received June 19 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) After ailluding to the general opiniions entertained with respect te the termination of nerve-fibres in voluntary muscle , and to Kiihne 's recent observations , the author proceeds to state that his researches have led him to the conclusion that every elementary fibre is abundantly supplied with nerves , which form a network and lie upon the surface of the sarcolemma .
They do not penetrate through this membrane .
The nerves never terminate in points , neither can any elemrentary fibres , or any part of a muscle , be found to which nerves are not freely distributed .
The nerves run for the most part with the smaller arteries , and come into very close relation with the capillary vessels .
The elementary fibres of the tongue and diaphragm of the white mouse are nearly covered with nerve-fibres and capillaries .
Generally , the muscular fibres of mammalia and birds receive a much larger supply than those of reptiles and fishes .
The muscular fibres of some insects appear to receive a most abundant supply .
As the nerve-trunks approach their distribution the individual fibres divide and subdivide , as was demonstrated long ago by Wagner .
The fibres resulting fro-m the subdivision often pursue a very long and complicated course by ruinning parallel with other fibres derived from different trunks , until , after being traced for some distance , it is not possible to follow them .
Finie trunks composed of from three to seven or eight fibres can often be seen traversing the muscle .
The fibres pursue different directions ; some dip down between the elementary muscular fibres , some pass and form with others from a different source small compound trunks , while others may be traced onwards for some distance ; the individual fibres which gradually separate from each other being distributed to different parts , in succession , of several elementary muscular fibres .
When the finest nerve-fibres can be seen passing round the elementary muscular fibre , they clearly consist of very delicate flattened bands .
Of the oval bodies or nuclei.-Connected with all nerves in every part of the body , sensitive , motor , vascular , and probably in all animals , are little oval bodies or nuclei , which are the organs by which the nerves are brought into the closest relation with other textures .
The nerves multiply at their distribution by the division of these little bodies , and upon them their nutrition and the manifestation of the nervous phenomenia depend .
A great numTber is associated1 with perfection of nervous actions , and vice vers6 .
They , ,i fomd ver7y freely connected with the vas utlar nerves , are aundant on those nerves near the ganglia from which they proceed , and in the ganiglia themselves .
These bodies , with the nuclei of capillary vessels and those of fat vesicles , and probably other structures with peculiar cells , which alone deserve the name , have been included under the term " areolar tissue corpuscles " ( BindegewebehIJperchen ) .
As specimens are usually prepared , it is quite impossible to distinguish these struictures from each other .
It is pro bable that the gelatinous fibres , or fibres of Remak , are after all real nerve-fibres , and not a peculiar modification of fibrous tissue , as is now generally believed .
The nerves and vessels , and with them , of course , the oval bodies , may be stripped off from the elementary muscular fibre .
They are in close contact with the sarcolemma ; and the author has been led to conclude from some appearances he has observed , that this structure is really composed of capillaries and nerve-fibres , with intervening tissue .
Of the manner in which nerves terminate.-The fibres connecting the oval bodies or nuclei form with them a network , the branches of which are of course continuous with the subdivisions of the nervefibres .
The arrangement of the network , and especially the number and proximity of the nuclei to each other , differ materially in different localities .
On sentient surfaces the meshes are very small and the nuclei close together ; but from the complexity and great number of the fibres , from the fact that many fibres which appear to be single can be resolved into three or four individual fibres , and from the circumstance of the network being imbedded , in most cases , in the midst of fibrous tissue , it is very difficult to describe its exact relations and disposition .
However , from the connexions of this network with the nerve-fibres , it would seem to follow that an impression made upon a given portion of a sentient surface might be transmitted to the nervous centre by contiguous fibres , as well as by the one which would form , so to say , the shortest route ; and it is possible that impulses to motion may be conveyed to muscular fibres by a more or less circuitous path , as well as by a direct one .
Of the so-called tu6ular membrane.-This is a transparent structure in which the nerve-fibres are imbedded .
It cannot strictlv be called a membrane , because in many cases several fibres are imbedded in it , and often it is much thieker than the fibres it contains .
By examinationi with high powers ( 700 diameters ) , many fibres which appear to be single when seen by lower powers can be resolved into three or more , all enclosed in the same transparent tissue .
As the nerve-fibres approach their distribution , this transparent structure becomes much spread out .
It is intimately connected with nervefibres and capillaries , and with them forms a delicate expansion over the muscular fibres and in other parts ; delicate fibres also , in conniexion with the nerves and capillaries , may be observed in it .
In some cases this expansion seems to be incorporated with the sarcolemma , and it is probable that in certain instances it is really the structure which has received that name .
Axis cylinder and white substance-The author has been led to conclude that , in consequence of the free division of the axis cylinder and white substance near the point of distribution of the nerve , a single fibre in the trunk of a nerve may carry impressions to or from a much larger extent of surface than is generally supposed .
The white substance which surrounds the axis cylinder gradually diminishes , until , in the finer ramnifications , it is impossible to say that a fibre consists of an axis cylinider and white substance ; for its general appearance and refractive power are the same in every part , except where the nuclei are situated .
The author considers that the definite characters of the axis cylinder and white substance in the trunks of the nerve , may be due to the gradual growth and altered relations of the fibres which occur during the development of the entire organism .
In the ultimate ramifications the whole fibre seems to consist of a very transparent and perhaps delicately granular substance , but no tub6tar mem6rane , medullary sheath , or7 axis cylinder can be demonstrated as distinct structures .
Of thie formation of new fibres.-Iii connexion with the terminal ramifications , niew fibres are being continually developed by the division of the nuclei , and old ones nindergo removal .
The remains of the latter may , however , be seen in the form of very delicate fibres , in connexion with active nerve-fibres .
The author regards much of the so-called connective tissue between the elementary fibres of muscle and in some other situations , as of this nature , -as the remains of structures whose period of fnnctional activity was past , and which have been removed , all but this small quantity of insoluble material .
The method of preparing the specimens is them briefly described .
Observationis were conducted principally on white mice , which were inijected with the author 's prussian blue fluid immediately after death * .
The paper concludes with the following summary of the most important facts elucidated in the inquiry : I. That nerve-fibres in muscle and in maniy other tissues , if not in all , may be traced into , and are directly continluous with , a network formed of oval nuclei and intermediate fibres .
2 .
That the organs by which nerves are brought into relation with other textures , and the agents conicerned in the development of nerves and the formation of new fibres , are the little oval bodies or nuclei which are present in considerable number in the terminal ramificationis of all nerves .
A great number of these bodies is associated with exalted nervous action , while , when they are sparinigly found , we may infer that the nervous phenomena are only imperfectly manifested .
3 .
That every elementary fibre of striped muscle is abundantly supplied with nerves , and that the fibres of some muscles receive a much larger supply than others .
4 .
That the nerves lie , with the capillaries , external to , but in close contact with , the sarcolemirna .
They often cross the muscular fibre at right aingles , so that one nerve-fibre may influtence a great number of elementary muscular fibres .
There is no evidence of their penetrating , into the interior of the fibre .
The paper is illustrated with drawings , most of them magnified 700 diameters .

