II .
" Further Observations on the Distribution of Nerves to the Elementary Fibres of Striped Muscle .
" By LIONEL S. BEALE , M.B. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physiology and of General and Morbid Anatomy in King 's College , London ; Physician to King 's College Hospital .
Received June 19 , 18620 ( Abstract .
) After referring to the views entertained on the mode of termination of the nerves in the tissues generally , the author proceeds to consider the arrangement of the nerves in muscle .
The old view was that nerves terminate in loops or networks which are external to the sarcolemma .
More recent researches had proved that these loops and networks are composed of coarse dark-bordered fibres , and from them finer fibres had been followed to the surface of the elementary fibres , and it was concluded that these terminate upon the sarcolemma in free ends .
In the Philosophical Transactions for 1860 , a paper by the author was published , in which it was shown that , the distribution of nerve-fibres to the muscles of the mouse was much more extensive than was generally supposed , and that to each muscular fibre , pale nerve-fibres with nuclei are distributed throughout its entire length ; that numerous fibres cross the elementary fibres at various angles , and thus the appearance of a network of nerve-fibres is produced .
This network is upon the same plane as the capillaries , and can be stripped off the surface of the sarcolemma with these vessels .
Last year Kiihne published a memoir on the termination of the nerves upon the elementary muscular fibres of the frog , and supported his view expressed in previous papers , that the nerves penetrate the sarcolemma and terminate in close relation to the contractile tissue* .
Kiihne endeavoured to show that the white substance of the nerve ceases at the sarcolemma , and that a pale nucleated fibre , the continuation of the axis-cylinder of the nerve , perforates the sarcolemma and terminates in free extremities beneath .
In connexion with these pale fibres he described special organs of an oval form and containing a nucleus .
In the Croonian Lecture for the present year , Professor Kolliker stated that he had failed to demonstrate the peculiar organs described by Kuihne , that Kiihne 's pale fibres are outside the sarcolemma , and that the nerves terminate in free ends , the sheath of the nerve being continued for some distance over the pale fibre * .
He also described some nerve-fibres , which for the most part ramify over the surface of the muscle .
These he regarded as sensitive fibres .
Kolliker and Kiihne agree that the muscle receives but a small supply of nerves , that their supply is limited to one part of the muscle , and that a comparatively very small portion of each elementary fibre is brought into relation with the nerves at all .
The author 's conclusions are quite at variance with these views .
Although in many cases the fine pale nerve-fibres could not be followed for any great distance from their origin , in some instances this had been done .
The pale fibres consist of a bundle of very fine fibres , which divides and subdivides into smaller bundles , and these , after being followed to the edge of the muscular fibres , can often be traced a long way amongst the fibres of connective tissue , and can sometimes even be followed to other trunks .
The author had seen many fibres less than the , o--01th of an inch in diameter , which had been proved to consist of at least two fibres .
Many of the so-called connective tissue corpuscles , close to the sarcolemma , are really the nuclei of very fine pale nerve-fibres , which form , as in the mouse , networks on the surface of the muscular fibre ; but the meshes are larger and the fibres much finer in the frog than in the mammal or bird .
The author showed that the distribution of the dark-bordered fibres to many muscles of the frog is by no means so limited as is generally supposed .
The elementary fibres of the inferior muscle of the eye of the frog are crossed by dark-bordered fibres at intervals of the -l^th of an inch .
The author showed that what appears to be the outline of a dark-bordered fibre near its peripheral distribution , really consists of a finer nerve-fibre in many instances .
Fine nerve-fibres run in the same sheath with the dark-bordered fibres .
Some of these fibres are the direct continuation of darkbordered fibres .
There are often also fine fibres to be demonstrated external to what appears to be the sheath of the fibre .
Nuclei are connected with the dark-bordered fibre , with the fine fibres in , and with those external to the sheath .
The pale fibres of Kiihne and K3olliker are always compound , and consist of1 .
A very fine fibre prolonged from the dark-bordered fibre .
2 .
Very fine fibres continuous with those in the sheath of the nerves , or external to it .
The author concludes , from numerous observations upon the distribution of nerves in many different tissues , that the general disposition of the finest fibres is the same as that of the coarser trunks and fibres .
In passing from the trunks towards the ultimate distribution of the nerves , it might be said we meet with finer and still finer networks and plexuses ; the finest fibres visible with the highest powers ( 1700 diameters ) being composed of more than a single fibre .
It is therefore probable that in all cases complete circuits exist .
The author maintains that the really important part of the peripheral nerve-fibres only commences at the point where the dark-bordered nerve-fibre seems to cease .
Beyond this there is a most elaborate network , the fibres of which are compound and composed of very fine fibres .
The meshes of this network and the fibres differ much in size in different tissues .
The active elements of the tissues lie in or upon the meshes of this network .
The author then discusses the relation of the terminal branches of the nerve-fibres to connective tissue .
His views are briefly expressed in the conclusions given below .
In order to see the appearances described by the author , the tissue must be mounted in some fluid which reflects highly , like syrup or glycerine .
The fine fibres he has seen cannot be demonstrated in specimens mounted in fluids composed mainly of water .
The paper is accompanied with upwards of forty figures copied from specimens magnified by a twelfth or by a twenty-sixth of an inch object-glass made by Messrs. Powell and Lealand , and magnifying respectively 700 and 1700 diameters linear .
138 Conclusions .
1 .
In certain muscles of the frog the distribution of dark-bordered nerve-fibres is pretty uniform in every part .
Although in the case of the pectoral a greater number of nerve-fibres is distributed to the central part of the muscle , fibres may be traced from the large bundle almost to the extremities of some of the muscular fibres .
Many branches which easily escape observation pass between the muscular fibres , and their subdivisions supply neighbouring fibres , or are gradually lost in the connective tissue .
2 .
Fine nerve-fibres are most easily demonstrated on the external surface of the sarcolemma near the nerve-trunks ; but reasons have been advanced in favour of the conclusion that every elementary muscular fibre is more or less freely supplied with nerve-fibres throughout its entire length .
Many of the fine nerve-fibres on the surface of the muscular fibres become gradually very faint , until from their extreme tenuity we are no longer able to follow them .
3 .
Fine nerve-fibres in direct continuation with the dark-bordered fibres , and less than the - , -o6oth of an inch in diameter , have been seen to divide into finer branches which have nuclei in connexion with them .
4 .
The pale fibres delineated by Kiihne and Kolliker , and by them considered terminal , consist of a. Fibres about the -o o-th of an inch in diameter , or less , resulting from the subdivision of the dark-bordered fibre .
6 .
Fibres resulting from the subdivision of fine nerve-fibres ramifying in the sheath of the dark-bordered fibre , or situated external to it .
5 .
Nuclei are found in connexion witha .
The dark-bordered fibre itself , near its terminal ramifications .
b. The fine fibres which are the direct continuation of the dark-bordered fibres .
c. The fine fibres in the sheath , or external to it .
6 .
The nuclei and delicate fibres above referred to are arranged so as to form networks , the meshes of which vary much in size , situated with the capillaries on the external surface of the sarcolemma .
The fibres of this network are compound , and consist of finer fibres which are distinct from , and do not anastomose with , each other .
The fine fibres continued from some of the dark-bordered fibres , as well as 1862 .
] 139 those ramifying in the sheath of the nerves , may sometimes be followed over six or more elementary muscular fibres , and form , with other fine branches , networks , many of the meshes being as wide as a muscular fibre .
7 .
Fine nerve-fibres with nuclei connected with them exist ( not unfrequently to the number of four or five ) in the sheath of the dark-bordered nerve-fibres near their distribution ; and some are also found external to what appears to be the outline of the sheath .
Some of these result from the subdivision of a dark-bordered fibre .
These fine fibres and their nuclei have been hitherto included under the head of ' connective tissue .
' 8 .
The connective tissue around the elementary muscular fibres , and in connexion with the nerve-fibres , is composed of a. Nuclei which might have taken part in the formation of the nerve-fibres , but which have degenerated , and a low form of fibrous tissue has alone been produced .
b. Fibres and nuclei which were once active , and formed an integral part of the nervous system , but which have grown old , and have been replaced by new nuclei and fibres .
c. The remains of altered and wasted vessels and nerve-fibres distributed to them , and wasted muscular fibres themselves .
9 .
The nerves distributed to the voluntary muscles of the frog do not terminate in free ends , but there is reason for believing that complete nervous circuits exist .
In all cases the fibres resulting from the division of the ordinary nerve-fibres are so fine that many cannot be seen with a power magnifying less than 1000 diameters , and there is evidence of the existence of fibres which could only be demonstrated by employing a much higher magnifying power .
It is by these very fine fibres alone , and their nuclei , that the tissues are influenced. .
The ordinary nerve-fibres are only the cords which connect this extensive peripheral system , which has been traced in different tissues far beyond the point to which the dark-bordered nerve-fibres can be followed , with the central organs of the nervous system .
10 .
The facts and conclusions above stated , with reference to the distribution of nerve-fibres to the voluntary muscles of the frog , are in accordance with the arrangement of the finest nerve-fibres demonstrated in many other tissues of the same animal , and agree with 140 many appearances observed by the author in connexion with the peripheral distribution of the nerves , not only in certain tissues of man and the higher mammalia , but also in invertebrate animals .
11 .
The distribution of the finest branches of the nerve-fibres can only be demonstrated in tissues which have been immersed in fluids which refract highly , as syrup or glycerine .

