III .
" Note on a New Object-glass for the Microscope , of higher magnifying power than any one hitherto made .
" By LIONEL S. BEALE .
, M.B. .
, .
F.R.C.P. , Professor of Physiology and of General and Morbid Anatomy in King 's College , and Physician to King 's College Hospital .
Received December 30 , 1865 .
I desire to record the completion of a new objective , with a magnifying power double that of the twenty-fifth .
This glass is a fiftieth , and magnifies nearly three thousand diameters with the low eyepiece .
Messrs. Powell and Lealand , the makers , to whom science is indebted for this the highest power yet made , produced a sixteenth in the year 1840 , and the twentysixth in 1860 .
The fiftieth defines even better than the twenty-fifth , which is now made instead of the twenty-sixth .
Plenty of light for illuminating the objects to be examined is obtained by the use of a condenser provided with a thin cap , having an opening not more than the ~th of an inch in diameter .
The preparation may be covered with the thinnest glass made * On the 5th of last December I tried the passage of the rays from the electric lamp through a great number of differently coloured glasses .
Incandescence was obtained through almost all of them ; and in one instance , the radiation passing through a blue glass , the thermograph of the coal-points was of a pink colour .
A thick black glass , obtained from Mr. Lad , when held in front of the lamp , was found to be not perfectly opaque ; still the platinum could not be raised to incandescence a tall when placed in the focus .
Being called away from the Royal Institution early in the afternoon , I gave directions to my assistant , Mr. Barrett , to continue the experiments .
He informs me that on placing in the pafh of the rays a combination of two thin plates of black glass , one transmitting a whitish-green , and the other a deep red , the light was entirely intercepted , and feeble though distinct incandescence was obtained at the focus .
With radiation through the solution of iodine , the thermograph on this day rose to a white heat .
2 1865 .
] 35 by Messrs. Chance , of Birmingham , or mica , and there is plenty of room for focusing to the lower surface of thin specimens , which can alone be examined by high powers as transparent objects .
I beg to draw attention to these very high powers at this time more particularly , because the facts recently urged in favour of the doctrine of spontaneous generation lately revived may be studied with great advantage .
Not only are particles , too small to be discerned by a sixteenth , well seen by a twenty-fifth or a fiftieth , but particles too transparent to be observed by the twenty-fifth are distinctly demonstrated by the fiftieth .
I feel sure that the further careful study , by the aid of these high powers , of the development and increase of some of the lowest organisms , and the movements which have been seen to occur in connexion with certain forms of living matter ( Amoeba , white blood-corpuscle , young epithelial cells , &amp;c. ) , will lead to most valuable results bearing upon the much debated question of vital actions .
Another very great advantage resulting from the use of the highest powers occurs in minute investigations upon delicate structures which occupy different planes , as is the case in many nervous organs .
In studying the distribution of the nerves in some of the peripheral organs of vertebrate animals , very fine fibres can be followed as they lie upon different planes .
The most delicate constituent nerve-fibres of the plexus in the summit of the papillie of the frog 's tongue ( New Observations upon the Minute Anatomy of the Papillme of the Frog 's Tongue , Phil. Trans. for 1864 ) , can be readily traced by the aid of this power .
The finest nerve-fibres thus rendered visible are so thin , that in a drawing they would be represented by fine single lines .
Near the summit of the papilla there is a very intricate interlacement of nerve-fibres , which , although scarcelybrought out by the twenty-fifth , is very clearly demonstrated by this power .
In this object the definition of the fibres , as they ramify in various planes one behind another , is remarkable ; and the flat appearance of the specimen as seen by the twenty-fifth , gives place to that of considerable depth of tissue and perspective .
The finest nerve-fibres ramifying in the cornea and in certain forms of connective tissue are beautifully brought out by this power , and their relation to the delicate processes from the connectivetissue corpuscles can be more satisfactorily demonstrated than with the twenty-fifth .
The advantage of the fiftieth in such investigations seems mainly due to its remarkable power of penetration .
The angular aperture of this glass is 150 ? .
Many twelfths have been made with a higher angular aperture , amounting to 170 ? .
It should be stated that the specimens of animal tissues which I have subjected to examination by very high powers are mounted in strong syrup , or in the strongest glycerine , according to the process detailed in ' How to work with the Microscope , ' 3rd edition , p. 204 .
It is perfectly true that no advantage results from examining by the aid of very high powers the tissues of man and the higher animals immersed in water , or in fluids of which water is the chief constituent ; nor is it possible to make the specimen sufficiently 36 [ Jan. 19 , thin for examination with very high powers if immersed in a limpid fluid .
The arrangement of the nerve-fibres I have referred to is not to be demonstrated in tissues immersed in water .
The finer branches of the nerves are in fact quite invisible until the specimen is well impregnated with a highly refracting fluid .
The imperfect methods of preparation usually employed for examining the higher tissues have given rise to a prejudice against the employment of high powers .
I have not referred to the use of very high powers in studying the characters of the Diatomaceae , because it is a branch of microscopic investigation which I have very little studied .
Other observers will probably state very shortly if anything is gained by the use of these high powers in this department .
It is probable that , by improved means in illuminating the objects , many new and important points will be made out by the use of very high magnifying powers .
Mr. Brooke has already suggested possible improvements in the condenser , some of which , I believe , he will carry out shortly .

