A paper was read , entitled " Researches in Embryology , Third Series : a Contribution to the Physiology of Cells .
" By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.R.S.E. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in Edinburgh .
In the second series of these researches , the author had traced certain changes in the mammiferous ovum consequent on fecundation .
The object of his present communication is to describe their further appearances obtained by the application of higher magnify ?
ing powers ; and to make known a remarkable process of develop ?
meant thus discovered .
In order to obtain more exact results , his observations were still made on the same animal as before , namely , the rabbit , in the expectation that , if his labours were successful , it would be comparatively easy to trace the changes in other mammals .
By pursuing the method of obtaining and preserving ova from the Fallopian tube which he recommended in his last paper , he has been enabled to find and examine 137 more of these delicate objects ; and has thus had ample opportunity of confirming the principal facts therein stated .
He has now procured in all 230 ova from the Fallopian tube .
But being aware that repeated observations alone do not suffice in researches of this nature , unless extended to the very earliest stages , he again specially directed his attention to the ovum while it is still within the ovary , with a view to discover its state at the moment of fecundation , as well as immediately before and after that event .
The almost universal supposition , that the Purkinjian or germinal vesicle is the essential portion of the ovum , has been realized in these investigations ; but in a manner not anticipated by any of the numerous conjectures which have been published .
The germinal vesicle becomes filled with cells , and these again become filled with the foundations of other cells ; so that the vesicle is thus rendered almost opake .
The mode in which this change takes place is the following , and it is one which , if confirmed by future observation , must modify the views recently advanced on the mode of origin , the nature , the properties , and the destination of the nucleus in the physi ?
ology of cells .
It is known that the germinal spot presents , in some instances , a dark point in its centre .
The author finds that such a point is invariably present at a certain period ; that it enlarges , and is then found to contain a cavity filled with fluid , which is exceedingly pellucid .
The outer portion of the spot resolves itself into cells ; and the foundations of other cells come into view in its interior , arranged in layers around the central cavity ; the outer layers being pushed forth by the continual origin of new cells in the interior .
The latter commence as dark globules in the pellucid fluid of the central cavity .
Every other nucleus met with in these researches has seemed to be the seat of changes essentially the same .
The appearance of the central portion of the nucleus is , from the above process , continually varying ; and the author believes that the nature of the nucleolus of Schleiden is to be thus explained .
The germinal vesicle , enlarged and flattened , becomes filled with the objects arising from the changes in its spot ; and the interior of each of the objects filling it , into which the eye can penetrate , presents a repetition of the process above described .
The central portion of the altered spot , with its pellucid cavity , remains at that part of the germinal vesicle which is directed towards the surface of the ovum , and towards the surface of the ovary .
At the cor ?
responding part , the thick transparent membrane of the ovum in some instances appears to have become attenuated , in others also cleft .
Subsequently , the central portion of the altered spot passes to the centre of the germinal vesicle ; the germinal vesicle , regaining its spherical form , returns to the centre of the ovum , and a fissure in the thick transparent membrane is no longer seen .
From these successive changes it may be inferred that fecundation has taken place ; and this by the introduction of some substance into the germinal vesicle from the exterior of the ovary .
It may also be inferred , that the central portion of the altered germinal spot is the point of fecundation .
In further proof that such really is the case , there arise at this part two cells , which constitute the foundation of the new being .
These two cells enlarge , and imbibe the fluid of those around them , which are at first pushed further out by the two central cells , and subsequently disappear by liquefaction .
The contents of the germinal vesicle thus enter into the formation of two cells .
The membrane of the germinal vesicle then disappears by liquefaction .
Each of the succeeding twin cells presents a nucleus , which , having first passed to the centre of its cell , resolves itself into cells in the manner above described .
By this means the twin cells , in their turn , become filled with other cells .
Only two of these in each twin cell being destined to continue , the others , as well as the membrane of each parent-cell , disappear by liquefaction , when four cells remain .
These four produce eight , and so on , until the germ consists of a mulberry-like object , the cells of which do not admit of being counted .
Nor does the mode of propagation continue the same with reference to number only .
The process inherited from the germinal vesicle by its twin offspring , reappears in the progeny of these .
Every cell , whatever its minuteness , if its interior can be discerned , is found filled with the foundations of new cells , into which its nucleus has been resolved .
Together with a doubling of the number of the cells , there occurs also a diminution of their size .
The cells are at first elliptical , and become globular .
The above mode of augmentation , namely the origin of cells in cells , appears by no means to be limited to the period in question .
Thus it is very common to meet with several varieties of epitheliumcells in the oviduct , including those which carry cilia , filled with cells ; but the whole embryo at a subsequent period is composed of cells filled with the foundations of other cells .
In the second series of these researches , it was shown that the mulberry-like object above mentioned , is found to contain a cell larger than the rest , elliptical in form , and having in its centre a thick-walled hollow sphere , which is the nucleus of this cell .
It was further shown that this nucleus is the rudimental embryo .
From what has been just stated , it appears , that the same process , by which a nucleus in one instance transforms itself into the embryo , is in operation in another instance , where the product does not ex ?
tend beyond the interior of a minute and transitory cell .
Making allowance , indeed , for a difference in form and size , the description given of the one might be applied to the other .
It was shown in the second series , that in the production of the embryo out of a nucleus , layer after layer of cells come into view in the interior , while layers previously formed are pushed further out ; each of the layers being so distinctly circumscribed as to appear almost mem ?
branous at its surface .
The same membranous appearance presents itself at the surface of the several layers of a nucleus in many situa ?
tions .
Farther , in the formation of the embryo , a pellucid centre is the point around which new layers of cells continually come into view ; a centre corresponding to that giving origin to similar appearances in every nucleus described in the present memoir .
It was shown that in the embryo this mysterious centre is present until it has assumed the form of the cavity , including the sinus rhomboidalis , in the central portion of the nervous system .
The process above described as giving origin to the new being in the mammiferous ovum , is no doubt universal .
The author thinks that there is evidence of its occurrence in the ova of batrachian Reptiles , some osseous Fishes , and certain of the Mollusca ; though the explanation given of these has been of a very different character .
It has hitherto been usual to regard the round white spot , or cica ?
tricula , on the yelk of the bird 's laid egg , as an altered state of the discus vitellinus in the unfecundated ovarian ovum .
So far from thinking that such is the case , the author believes the whole substance of the cicatricula in the laid egg to have its origin within the germinal vesicle , in the same manner as in the ovum of Mammalia .
There is no fixed relation between the degree of development of ova , and their size , locality , or age .
The variation with regard to size is referable chiefly to a difference in the quantity of fluid imbibed in different instances by the incipient chorion .
Vesicles filled with transparent fluid are frequently met with in the Fallopian tube , very much resembling the thick transparent membrane of the ovarian ovum .
These vesicles are probably unimpregnated ova , in the course of being absorbed .
The so-called " yelk " in the more or less mature ovarian ovum , consists of nuclei in the transition state and exhibiting the compound structure above described .
The mass of these becomes circumscribed by a proper membrane .
They and their membrane subsequently disappear by liquefaction , and are succeeded by a new set , arising in the interior , and likewise becoming circumscribed by a proper membrane , and so on .
This explains why some observers have never seen a membrane in this situation .
After the fecundation of the ovum , the cells of the tunica granulosa , that is , part of the so-called " disc , " are found to have become club-shaped , greatly elongated , filled in some instances with cells , and connected with the thick transparent membrane by their pointed extremities alone .
That the thin membrane described by the author in his second series as rising from the thick transparent membrane in the Fallo ?
pian tube , and imbibing fluid , is really the incipient chorion , was then shown by tracing it from stage to stage , up to the period when villi form upon it .
There remained , however , two questions undecided ; viz. , whether the chorion is formed of cells , and if so , whether the cells are those of the so-called " disc , " brought by the ovum from the ovary .
The author now states that the chorion is formed of cells , which gradually collect around the thick transparent membrane , and coalesce ; and that the cells in question are not those of the " disc " brought with the ovum from the ovary .
The cells which give origin to the chorion are intended to be more particularly described in a future paper .
The existing view , namely , that a nucleus , when it leaves the membrane of its cell , simply disappears by liquefaction , is inapplicable to any nucleus observed in the course of these investigations .
The nucleus resolves itself into incipient cells in the manner above described .
In tracing this process , it appears that the nucleus , and especially its central pellucid cavity , is the seat of changes which were not to have been expected from the recently advanced doctrine , that the disappearing nucleus has performed its entire office by giving origin at its surface to the membrane of a single cell .
It is the mysterious centre of a nucleus which is the point of fecundation ; and the place of origin of two cells constituting the foundation of the new being .
The germinal vesicle , as already stated , is the parent cell , which , having given origin to two cells , disappears , each of its successors giving origin to other two , and so on .
Perpetuation , however , at this period , consists , not merely in the origin of cells in cells , but in the origin of cells in the pellucid central part of what had been the nucleus of cells .
The author shows that neither the germinal vesicle , nor the pellucid object in the epithelium-cell , is a cytoblast .
He suggests , that the cells into which , according to his observations , the nucleus becomes resolved , may enter into the formation of secondary deposits ?
for instance , spiral fibres ; and that they may contribute to the thickening which takes place , in some instances , in the cell-membrane .
The germ of certain plants passes through states so much resem ?
bling those occurring in the germ of mammiferous animals , that it is not easy to consider them as resulting either from a different fundamental form , or from a process of development which even in its details is not the same as what has been above described ; the fundamental form in question in Mammalia ?
and therefore it may be presumed of Man himself ?
being that which is permanent in the simplest plants , ?
the single isolated cell .

