" Researches in Embryology .
" First Series .
By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S.E. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in Edin ?
burgh .
Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. This paper is divided into two parts .
In the first part the author describes the origin and structure of the ovisac , a vesicle common to all vertebrated animals , but hitherto regarded as the inner mem ?
bran of the " folliculus Graafianus " in Mammalia , and by some authors denominated the " chorion " in other Vertebrata .
He also describes the real nature of the " folliculus Graafianus , " and its re ?
lation to the calyx of the Bird ; the germinal vesicle and its con ?
tents , as being the most primitive portion of the ovum ; the order of formation of the several other parts of the ovarian ovum ; and the true chorion of Mammalia as being a structure superadded within the ovary .
In the second part the author describes a granulous tunic of the ovum of Mammalia not hitherto observed ; the manner of origin of the " membrana granulosa " of authors ; the different situations of the ovum in the Graafian vesicle at certain periods ante coitum , not hitherto observed ; and certain structures by means of which the ovum is made to occupy these several situations .
The following are the principal facts made known by Dr. Barry in this memoir ; but other facts are also mentioned , which he intends to make the subject of a future communication .
In Mammalia and in Birds the germinal vesicle and its contents are those parts of the ovum which are first formed .
The germinal vesicle at an early period is surrounded by peculiar granules , forming an envelope not hitherto described .
The ovum of all vertebrated animals is contained in a vesicle ( the " chorion " of some authors , found in Birds , Amphibia , and Fishes ) , which is essentially the same in structure wherever found , and which he thinks it desirable universally to denominate an ovisac .
This vesicle is the " couch inteme " of the Graafian vesicle , as described by Professor Baer .
The Graafian vesicle of Mammalia is nothing more than an ovisac that has acquired a covering or tunic , susceptible of becoming highly vascular , which covering is the " couch extcme " of the Graafian vesicle as described by Baer .
The ovisac of Birds , Amphibia , and Fishes ( " chorion " of some authors ) , acquires in like manner a covering or tunic , susceptible of becoming highly vascular ; and by the union of the ovisac with this covering , there is constituted a structure analogous to the Graafian vesicle of Mammalia .
The quantity of yelk in the former being large , that portion of the ovary which contains the structure here referred to ( as analogous to the Graafian vesicle of Mammals ) becomes pendent ; and now the united coverings of the yelk-ball , ?
viz. the ovisac , its external tunic , the ovarian stroma , and the peritoneal investment , ?
are together called the calyx .
From this it will be obvious that the Graafian vesicle is not a structure peculiar to Mammalia , as it has been supposed .
The ovisac has at first an elliptical or ellipsoidal form , becomes more spherical , and in Mammalia is often met with somewhat tapered at one end .
The structure of the ovisac in some of the Mammalia may be examined when it does not exceed in length the 50th or even the 100th part of a Paris line , that is , in the latter case , the 1125th of an English inch .
Myriads of ovisacs with their contents are formed that never reach maturity .
Some of the ovisacs which do not reach maturity are situated in the parietes of Graafian vesicles in Mammalia , or of the corresponding structures in other Vertebrata ; being sometimes formed in this situation , and sometimes included within the covering which the larger ovisac acquires .
The minute ovisacs so situated the author proposes to denominateparasitic ovisacs .
The ovisac is often found in a cavity proper to itself , with the walls of which it has no organic union .
The granules forming the envelope of the germinal vesicle above referred to , and sub ?
sequently found in the fluid of the ovisac , are very peculiar in their appearance , contain a nucleus , and sometimes also a pellucid fluid , and are intimately connected with the evolution of the ovum .
These granules are present in largest quantity in the ovisac of Mammalia ; yet granules essentially the same exist in an early stage in the ovisac of Birds , and are sometimes met with in that of Fishes .
A continual disappearance of ova , and a formation of others , are observable even at a very early age .
The ovum of Mammalia when completely formed is at first situated in the centre of the ovisac .
It is at this period supported in the centre of the ovisac by an equable diffusion of granules throughout the fluid of the latter .
The ovisac about the same time begins to acquire a covering or tunic , by which addition , as already stated , there is constituted a Graafian vesicle ; and of the latter , the ovisac is now the inner membrane .
After this period , then , it is proper to speak , not of an ovisac , but of a Graafian vesicle .
The peculiar granules of the Graafian vesicle arrange themselves to form three structures , viz. the membrana granulosa of authors , and two structures not hitherto described , one of which the author proposes to name the tunicagranulosa , and the other , which is rather an assemblage of structures than a single structure , the retinacula .
The tunica granulosa is a spherical covering proper to the ovum , and its presence explains why the outer line in the double contour of the thick chorion has remained so long unobserved .
At a certain period this tunic , in some animals at least , is seen to have taillike appendages , consisting of granules similar to its own .
The re ?
tinacula consist of a central mass containing the ovum in its tunica granulosa , and of cords or bands extending from this central mass to the membrana granulosa .
These structures at a certain period became invested by a membrane .
The offices of the retinacula appear to be , ?
first , to suspend the ovum in the fluid of the Graafian vesicle , ?
next , to convey it to a certain part of the periphery of this vesicle , ?
and subsequently to retain it in the latter situation , and also to promote its expulsion from the ovary .
The particular part of the periphery of the Graafian vesicle to which the ovum is con ?
vey ed , is uniformly that directed towards the surface of the ovary .
The mass of granules escaping with the ovum on the bursting of a Graafian vesicle under the compressor , is composed chiefly of the tunica granulosa and the ruptured retinacula .
The " cumulus " of Professor Baer is made up of the parts called by Dr. Barry the tunica granulosa and the central portion of the retinacula ; and the band-like portions , collectively , of what Dr. Barry calls the retina ?
cula , mainly contribute to produce the appearance denominated the " flat disc " by Professor Baer .
In Mammalia a thick and highly transparent membrane , ?
the true chorion , ?
is formed external to the proper membrane of the yelk , while the latter is in the ovary .
The inner part of the substance of the chorion in its early stages is in a fluid state , so that the yelkball moves freely in it ; but it subsequently acquires more consistence .
There is not any structure corresponding to the chorion in the ovary of other vertebrated animals .
The following appears to be the order of formation , as to time , of the more permanent parts of the ovum and the Graafian vesicle in Mammalia , viz. : 1 .
The germinal vesicle , with its contents , and its envelope of peculiar granules .
2 .
The proper membrane of the ovisac , which forms around this envelope of granules .
3 .
The yolk , which forms around the germinal vesicle .
4 .
The proper membrane of the yolk , which makes its appearance while the yolk is still in an incipient state .
5 .
The chorion .
" The covering or tunic of the ovisac ; and about the same time , the peculiar granules of the ovisac arrange themselves to form , f The tunica granulosa , &lt; The retinacula , and _L The membrana granulosa .
Such of these structures as are present in the ovary of other Vertcbrata , aj^pear to originate in the same order as to time .

