An Ingenious proposal for a new sort of Maps of Countries , together with Tables of Sands and Clays , such chiefly as are found in the North parts of England , drawn up about 10 years since , and delivered to the Royal Society Mar. 12 .
1683 .
by the Learned Martin Lister M. D. WE shall then be better able to judge of the make of the Earth , and of many Phenomenon belonging thereto , when we have well and duly examined it , as far as human art can possibly reach , beginning from the outside downwards .
As for the more inward and Central parts thereof , I think we shall never be able to confute Gilbert 's opinion thereof , who will , not without Reason , have it altogether Iron * .
And for this purpose it were advisable , that a Soil or Mineral Map , as I may call it , were devised .
The same Map of England may , for want of a better , at present serve the Turn .
It might be distinguisht into Countries , with the River and some of the noted Towns put in .
The Soil might either be coloured , by variety of Lines , or Etchings ; but the great care must be , very exactly to note upon the Map , where such and such Soils are bounded .
As for example in Yorkshire ( 1 .
) The Woolds , Chalk , Flint , and Pyrites , ~c .
( 2 .
) Black moore ; Moors , Sandstone , ~c .
( 3 .
) Holderness ; Boggy , Turf , Clay , Sand , ~c .
( 4 .
) Western Mountains ; Moors , Sand-stone , Coal , Iron-stone , Lead Ore , Sand , Clay , ~c .
Notting ham shire , mostly Gravel Pebble , Clay , Sand-stone , Hall-playster , or Gypsum , &amp;c. Now if it were noted , how far these extended , and the limits of each Soil appeared upon a Map , something more might * De Magn. Lib. I. Cap. 17 .
Tellus in interioribus partibus magneticam homogenicam naturam habet .
be comprehended from the whole , and from every part , then I can possibly foresee , which would make such a labour very well worth the pains .
For I am of the opinion , such upper Soils , if natural , infallibly produce such under Minerals , and for the most part in such order .
But I leave this to the industry of future times .
I shall entertain you at present , with a Scheme of Sand , and another of Clay , such only which I have had the chance to meet with in England .
As for the Sand , I have some reasons to think , that it was once , the most exterior and general cover of the surface of the whole Earth .
Because all our Northern Mountains are more or less covered with it at this day , and the higher the Mountains , still the more , and the courser the Sand : Because the Rivers arising in the Mountains do yet daily bring it down in great quantities , and that it has been so in all probability , in all Ages , since the first rains fell upon the face of the Earth , which seems to me to be truth like , in that the Sea-shoares , or Mouths of Rivers , are usually barred with it ; Besides the Sandy Sea Grounds in most places of the Sea ; and ( which seems a clear evidence for the length of time ) for that , the low grounds near these Rivers ( which have been in all ages upon Record , Mosses ) if you pierce so deep into them , as to discover their bottom ; you meet with this Mountain Sand in great quantities , and in some places a Moss under that , and the same Sand-beds under that .
Now if we consider how long these Mosses or Turf is in growing , it being mostly the leaves and roots of Plants , we must allow very many Ages for this purpose .
And although Herodotus one of the most Ancient Historians that are , boldly conjectures that AEgypt long before our times , would be dammed up and useless by the great plenty of Mud yearly brought down that vast River ; yet it does not appear , that the Country is much different from what it was in his time , so that the Sand and Mud is still carried to Sea .
Another Argument of the Sands being the Universal Cover of the face of the Earth is , from the great hardness , and consequently the durableness , and unalterable quality of this Mineral , above any other in Nature .
For though many things are called Sand , from the smallness and little Cohaesion , or dryness of the grains , yet this kind of Mountain Sand above all others keeps its natural and original magnitude , and is not made ( as most Sand is ) by the Attrition and wearing of one particle of stone against another ; But is of a constant and durable figure ; and therefore , I say , it seems to me for this reason to be the most fit for an outside or cover to the Globe of the Earth .
And if it shall be objected , that although we grant the high Mountains of England and Europe , are usually first bedded with Sand-Rocks , if not still covered in many places with loose sand , yet are there other Mountains , as the high Woolds all over England , not so , but their uppermost beds of stone are soft Chalk .
and on the smooth surface no appearance of any Sand .
This indeed is in part granted ; but that there is no where any Sand , upon the Chalk Mountains , is not true ; for to instance in those inland Sand Hills above Bulloine in Piccardy , which sand is the very same with that on the Sea shore at Calais , and although this is not England , yet the Sea hath but accidentally divided us : for Dunstable Dunstable Ex. gra .
in England , even as far as the Walls of Paris by Calais , is as it were a continued Woolds of Chalk and Flint .
What difference there is betwixt the Woolds Mountain sand , and that of the Northern Mountains will best appear in the Table .
Now the nakedness of the Woolds , is from the smallness of its sand , which readily yielded not only to the Rain that sell , but to the Wind also .
Which is evident from that vast tract of sandy Hills , which bound the coasts of France , Flanders , and Holland , and which have made their Coasts so shallow in respect of ours , as being in great part blown off the Yorkshire , Lincolnshire , Suffolk , or Essex , and Kentish Woolds , and wrapped up upon their Coasts ; and the reason of this is partly from the more constant Westerly winds blowing over from our Coasts ; and also from the meeting of the two Tides , viz. that of the Channel , and that other of North Flood upon their Coasts .
I am well aware , that the finding of Cockles or Shells , as most writers are pleased to call them , upon Mountains , and sand also there , is by the same Herodotus used as an Argument of a great Deluge , or inundation of waters ; but as I have elsewhere I think demonstrated , that the Rock-Cochlites are no Shells , so neither can I grant that the Sand was adventitious to the Mountains , but naturally originated there ; for that it is there plainly to be found , some loose , and the rest in Beds , yet unloosened ; as I could name very many places , for instance , Silden and Thorpe Fells in Craven , this Mountain Sand is a white and transparent pebble , and some of it is small and easily swept and blown away , so is there much of it upon the high Mountains mixed with white pebbles of greater Size .
It is the Character of this sand , not to yield to fire , as Flint will do ; and though it agree with that and some other metalls , to strike fire from Steel , yet it does not calcine , as Flint will be brought to doe .
And therefore this Sand is the true Tarso of the Italian Mountains , of which the fine Venetian Glass is made ; and for this reason , the Flint-Glasses were here in England ill compounded , the Foreigners mistaking the materials , which yet our Country assords in plenty , all over the Norther , and ( I doubt not ) the Western mountains too : I have seen from the Scotch mountains very excellent and large .
A Table of Sand ( drawn up about X. years since ) such chiefly as I have found in the Northern parts of England .
Sand .
Sharpe or Rag-Sand , composed of small transparent pebbles , naturally found upon the Mountains , not calcinable .
Fine White Slitneham Moor in the Road washed up very white Pebble .
Flamborough head , of which the Light house there is cemented .
Calice Sand ; burns reddish , but falls not in water .
Grey Seaton Banks near Hartlepool or the Tees mouth , Escrick , in the Gravel pit there .
A vein of exceeding fine Sand .
Reddish The Pillow Sand in the Baltic .
Browne In a Spring at Heshington .
The Sand at the Bath in Somersetshire .
Course Acome near York drifted Sand .
Greifly Hutton Moor washed .
Thorpe Fells .
Owze at York .
Nid at Mountain .
Dug up at Rawcliff near Snath Wharf at Ickly and Denton .
Air at Carleton in Craven .
Eure at Bolton .
Browne Gauton .
Santon in Lincolnshire .
Bomeby Common .
Skipwith Common .
Soft or smooth with flat particles .
From Limestone .
At ... ... .
in Yorkshire .
A Vein at Oswell Beacon in Lincolnshire .
With Mica of Glittering particles , Silver like Sea sand about the Sylly Islands .
Of WestmorIn Cleveland and about Scarborough .
land Ouze dust , or sediment at Rawcliff .
Gold like A Vein of Mica in Heslington Gravel Pit .
Mica Argentea in Red sand Rock near Rippon plentifully .
Mica Aura of Cleveland .
Also I here give a Scheme of Clays , as well because it seems to be another Coat of the Terrestrial Globe in the more depressed and hollow parts thereof , as because the mixture of Sand and Clay is not unusually called Earth .
Yet this term being too large it will be convenient , as I think , to limit it to such a mixture as we usually find upon the surface of the ground , which hath ever in it , besides such Sands and Clays , as either the Soil naturally produces , or have by Floods or Winds , or other accidents been brought thither , a great part of the rotten parts of Plants and Animals .
And in this sense Turff is Earth , which is mostly where the Erica or Heath grows , because it is made up of the deciduous Leaves of that Plant , which being by the Current of showr 's brought together , make up the Moors , Mosses , and Fens , and in the Mountains in hollow Basons or Depressures without Vent ; Mosses of incredible depth , 1 .
or 2 .
Fathom ordinarily in the same kind of Black Earth , called Peat or Turff .
A Table of Clays .
Pure , that is , such as is soft like Butter to the Teeth , and has little or no greetiness in it .
Greasy , to be reckoned amngst the Medicinal Earths , or Terrae Sigillatae .
1 .
Fullers Earth At Brickhili in Northamptonshire .
Yellowish At ... ... under the Yorkshire Woolds .
Brown about Hallifax .
White in Derbyshire Lead Mines .
In Cleveland .
2 .
Boli At Linton , upon Wharf .
3 .
Pale yellow , in the Marle pit at Ripley .
4 .
Cow shot clay , or the Soap scale lying in Coal Mines .
5 .
A dark blew-clay or Marle at Tolthrop .
Harsh and dusty when dry .
6 .
Creta properly so called , or the Milk white Clay of the Isle of VViglt .
7 .
The Potters pale yellow Clay of VVakefield Moor .
8 .
The Blew Clay of Bullingbrook Pottery in Lincolnshire .
9 .
A Blew clay in Bugthorp Beck , in which the Astroites are found .
10 .
Yellow Clay in the seames of the Red sand Rock at Bilbro .
11 .
Fine red clay in Red sand at Bilbro Rock , at Rippon .
12 .
A soft chalky blew clay at Buttercrain .
13 .
A soft chalky red clay Stony when dry .
14 .
A Red stone clay In the Banks of ~ beck , near Leppington : &amp; at Hou15 .
A Blew stone clay sam in the Milscar .
16 .
Clunch , a white stone clay in Cambridgsh .
Mixed with Round Sand or Pebble .
17 .
The yellow Loame of Skipwith Moor Yorkshire .
18 .
A Red sandy clay in the right hand bank of the Road beyond Collingham , near the lime Kilns going to ----19 .
A Red sandy clay in the Red sand Rock near Rippon .
With flat or thin sand , glittering with Mica .
20 .
Crouch white clay ~ , of which the Glass-pots are made at ~ .
21 .
Grey or bluish Tobacco Pipe clay at Hallifax .
22 .
A Red Clay in the Red sand Rock at Rotherham .

