A paper was also read , entitled , " On the Corpuscles of the Blood .
" By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S. The author in the course of his researches in Embryology , detailed in his " third series , " observed that some of the corpuscles of the blood undergo progressive alterations in their structure .
The cor ?
puscles so altered he believes to be of the same kind as those described by Professor Owen ; and having found that the alterations in question terminate in a separation of the corpuscles into globules , he thinks this fact confirms the idea of Professor Owen ?
that the blood-disc undergocs spontaneous subdivision .
The author farther observed that the corpuscles of the blood , in certain altered states , undergo rapid and incessant changes of form , which cannot be traced to the action of neighbouring cilia .
A corpuscle will sometimes as ?
sum the figure of an hour-glass , as if it were preparing to divide itself into two parts , but it instantaneously either regains its previ ?
ous form , or assumes a new one .
These motions are incessant , and so rapid that it is not easy to catch and delineate any of the result ?
ing forms ; they are compared to the writhings of an animal in pain .
The author has seen them in a rabbit , as late as two hours and a half after death , and thinks it probable that they may continue for a longer time , although , when under the microscope , they gradually and in a short time cease ; the rapid changes of form , which are at first apparent , passing into gentle undulations , and being succeeded by an alternation of rest and motion .
Should these facts be thought to confirm the opinion of John Hunter , that the blood " has life within itself , " or " acquires it in the act of forming organic bodies , " because its corpuscles in certain states exhibit " vital actions , " still his assertion that " the red glo ?
bules " are the least important part of the blood , will appear to have no just foundation .
The author finds that the phenomena attending what is called " vital turgescence " of the blood-vessels , depend not merely on an accumulation and stagnation of blood , but on changes in the condi ?
tion of its corpuscles , which assume a more or less globular , or ellip ?
tical appearance resembling cells .
Their interior is dark , , from a great increase of red colouring matter which accumulates around a pellucid and colourless point , corresponding in situation to that of the central part of nuclei in other cases ; and so completely do the corpuscles fill their vessels , that the fluid portion of the blood is excluded , and the corpuscles are compressed into polyhedral forms .
This condition of the blood-corpuscles during vital turgescence of the vessels , the author thinks deserving of consideration , in connexion with many of the phenomena attending local accumulations of blood , both in health and in disease ; and more especially with reference to increased pulsation , the exudation of colourless fluid , and the heat and redness of inflamed parts .
According to the views of the author , the formation and nourishment of organs is not effected merely by the fluid portion of the blood , for he has discovered that the cells which he showed in his " Third Series of Researches in Embryology " form the chorion , are altered blood-corpuscles ; and he has farther found that muscular fibre ( that is , the future muscle-cylinder , not the fibril ) is formed by the coalescence of cells , which also are derived from corpuscles of the blood .
He has seen and figured every stage of transition , from the unaltered blood-corpuscle to the branched cells forming the chorion , on the one hand , and to the elliptical or oblong mus ?
cle-cells , on the other .
The colour is not changed , except that the blood-corpuscles , when passing into cells for the formation of mus ?
cle , become of a much deeper red .
There seems to occur in these an increase of red colouring matter .
Valentin , in describing the mode of the formation of muscle , had stated that globules approach one another and coalesce to form threads , which in many places have the appearance of a necklace , but subsequently lose the traces of division , and become cylinders .
Schwann had conjectured that the globules just referred to ?
as ha ?
ving been observed by Valentin ?
are cells , and that these cells coalesce to form a secondary cell , that is , the muscle-cylinder .
The author confirms the observations of Valentin and the conjectures of Schwann , with the addition , that the globules coalescing to form the muscle-cylinder are blood-corpuscles which have become cells .
The fibrils appear to be subsequently formed within the cylinder , which thus becomes the muscular fasciculus .
The medullary portion of the cylinder appears to be composed of the pellucid objects , one of which is contained within each altered blood-corpuscle .
Some of these pellucid objects , however , continue to occupy a peripheral situation .
The author thinks it is not probable that muscular fibre and the chorion are the only tissues formed by the corpuscles of the blood ; he is disposed rather to inquire , how many are the tissues which they do not form ?
Nerves , for instance , are known to arise very much in the same manner as muscle-cylinders ; and epithelium-cells sometimes present appearances which have almost suggested to the author the idea that they were altered corpuscles of the blood .
Schwann had prevously shown that " for all the elementary parts of organisms there is a common principle of developement , " ?
the elementary parts of tissues having a like origin in cells , however different the functions of those tissues .
The facts made known in the present memoir not only afford evidence of the justness of the views of Schwann , but they farther show that objects , such as the corpuscles of the blood , having all the same appearance , enter immediately into the formation of tissues which physiologically are extremely different .
Some of these corpuscles arrange themselves into muscle , and others become metamorphosed into constituent parts of the chorion .
But the author thinks it is not more difficult to conceive corpuscles having the same colour , form , and general appearance , undergoing transformations for very different purposes , than to admit the fact made known by two of his preceding me ?
moirs , ?
namely , that the nucleus of a cell , having a central situa ?
tion in the group which constitutes the germ , is developed into the whole embryo , wdiile the nuclei of cells occupying less central situa ?
tions in the group , form no more than a minute portion of the am ?
nion .
It is known that in the bee-hive a grub is taken ?
for a spe ?
cial purpose ?
from among those born as workers , which it perfectly resembles until nourished with peculiar food , when its developement takes a different course from that of every other individual in the hive .
June 18 , 1840 .
The MARQUIS of NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
Jean Baptist Dumas , was elected a Foreign Member of the Society .
Lieutenant-Colonel John George Bonner , E.I.C.S. , and John Narrien , Esq. , were balloted for , and duly elected into the Society .
The President informed the Meeting that the Council had voted the following Addresses of Congratulation to Her Majesty the Queen , and His Royal Highness Prince Albert , on the occasion of the late traitorous attack made upon their lives .
" To the Queen*s Most Excellent Majesty .
" The humble Address of the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge .
" Most Gracious Sovereign , " We , Your Majesty 's subjects , the President , Council , and Fel ?
lows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Know ?
ledge , deeply penetrated with feelings of indignation and abhorrence at the treasonable and atrocious attack lately made on Your Majesty 's sacred person , beg leave to approach your Throne , and to offer our heartfelt congratulations on Your Majesty 's providential escape from the wicked designs of an assassin .
" We lift up our hearts in joyful thankfulness to the Almighty Disposer of Events for his merciful protection of a life so dear to all Your Majesty 's subjects , and so important to the welfare and prosperity of these realms ; and we most earnestly pray that the same Providence , so signally manifested on the late event , may continue to shield Your Majesty from every danger ; and that during a long , prosperous and happy reign , Your Majesty may live in the enjoyment of the affection and prayers of a grateful and united people .
" " To His Royal Highness Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
" The humble Address of the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge .
" May it please Your Royal Highness , " We , the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge , approach your Royal Highness with the expression of our heartfelt gratitude to the Almighty Disposer of Events for the protection of Her Majesty and Your Royal Highness from the traitorous attack of an assassin , and to offer our sincere congratulations for the safety of a life so important to the welfare of this great empire , as well as to the happi ?
ness of our beloved Sovereign .
" In offering these our sentiments , we cannot forget that Your Royal Highness , by becoming one of our members , has proclaimed to the world Your Royal Highness 's .
attachment to those sciences for the advancement of which our Society was established , and which tend at the same time to the glory of the nation that protects them , and to the happiness of the whole civilized world .
"

