The reading of a paper entitled , " On Fibre , " by Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.SS .
Lond. and Edin .
, was resumed and concluded .
The author observes , that , in the mature blood-corpuscle , there is often seen a flat filament , already formed within the corpuscle .
In Mammalia , including Man , this filament is frequently annular ; sometimes the ring is divided at a certain part , and sometimes one ex ?
tremity overlaps the other .
This is still more the case in Birds , Am ?
phibia , and Fishes , in which the filament is of such length as to con ?
stitute a coil .
This filament is formed of the discs contained within the blood-corpuscle .
In Mammals , the discs entering into its forma ?
tion are so few as to form a single ring ; and hence the biconcave form of the corpuscle in this class , and the frequent annular form of the filament it produces .
In the other Vertebrata , the discs contain ?
ed within the blood-corpuscle are too numerous for a single ring ; and they consequently form a coil .
At the outer part of this coil , the filament , already stated to be flat , often presents its edge ; whence there arises a greater thickness of the corpuscle , and an appearance of being cut off abruptly at this part ; while in the centre there is generally found the unappropriated portion of a nucleus ; and hence the central eminence , surrounded by a depression , in those corpuscles which , from the above-mentioned cause , have the edge thickened .
The nucleus of the blood-corpuscle in some instances resembles a ball of twine ; being actually composed , at its outer part , of a coiled fila ?
meant .
In such of the invertebrata as the author has examined , the blood-corpuscle is likewise seen passing into a coil .
The filament , thus formed within the blood-corpuscle , has a remarkable structure ; for it is not only flat , but deeply grooved on both surfaces , and consequently thinner in the middle than at the edges , which are rounded ; so that the filament , when seen edgewise , appears at first sight to consist of segments .
The line separating the appa ?
rent segments from one another is , however , not directly transverse , but oblique .
Portions of the clot in blood sometimes consist of filaments having a structure identical with that of the filament formed within the blood-corpuscle .
The ring formed in the blood-corpuscle of Man , and the coil formed in that of Birds and Reptiles , have been seen by the author unwinding themselves into the straight and often parallel filaments of the clot ; changes which may be also seen occurring in blood placed under the microscope before its coagulation ; and similar coils may be perceived scattered over the field of view , the coils here also appearing to be altered blood-corpuscles , in the act of un ?
winding themselves ; filaments , having the same structure as the foregoing , are to be met with apparently in every tissue of the body .
The author enumerates a great variety of organs in which he has observed the same kind of filaments .
Among vegetable structures , he subjected to microscopic examina ?
tion the root , stem , leaf-stalk , and leaf , besides the several parts of the flower : and in no instance of phanerogamous plants , where a fibrous tissue exists , did he fail to find filaments of the same kind .
On subsequently examining portions indiscriminately taken from ferns , mosses , fungi , lichens , and several of the marine algre , he met with an equally general distribution of the same kind of filaments .
The flat filament seen by the author in all these structures , of both animals and plants , he states to be that usually denominated a fibre .
Its appearance is precisely such as that of the filament formed within the corpuscle of the blood .
It is known , he remarks , that discoid corpuscles circulate in plants ; and it remains to be seen whether or not filaments are formed also in these .
By gradually tracing the fibre or filament above-mentioned into similar objects of larger size , the author endeavours to show that it is not possible to draw a line of separation between the minutest fila ?
meant , and an object being to all appearance composed of two spirals running in opposite directions , and interlacing at certain regular in ?
tervals ; an arrangement which produces in the entire object a flat ?
tened form , and gives it a grooved appearance .
It is , in fact , the structure which , for want of a better term , he has called a flat fila ?
meant .
The edge of this filament presents what , at first sight , seem like segments , but which , in reality , are the consecutive curves of a spiral thread .
A transverse section of such an object is rudely re ?
presented by the figure 8 .
This is also precisely the appearance presented by the minutest filament , generally termed Fibre : and the author particularly refers to the oblique direction of the line separating the apparent segments in the smaller filament , in connexion with the oblique direction of the spaces between the curves of the spiral threads in the larger one .
The spiral form , which has heretofore seemed wanting , or nearly so , in animal tissues , is then shown to be as general in animals as in plants .
Nervous tissue , muscle , minute blood-vessels , and the cry ?
stalline lens , afford instances in proof of this .
And if the author 's view of identity in structure between the larger and the smaller fila ?
ments be correct , it follows that spirals are much more general in plants themselves than has been hitherto supposed ; spirals would thus appear , in fact , to be as universal as a fibrous structure .
The tendency to the spiral form manifests itself very early .
Of this the most important instance is afforded by the corpuscle of the blood , as above described .
The author has also obtained an interesting proof of it in cartilage from the ear of a rabbit ; where the nucleus , lying loose in its cell , resembled a ball of twine , being composed at its outer part of a coiled filament , which it was giving off to weave the cell-wall ; ?this cell-wall being no other than the last-formed portion of what is termed the intercellular substance ?
the essential part of cartilage .
These nuclei in cartilage , as well as those in other tis ?
sues , there is ground for believing to be descended , by fissiparous ge ?
neration , from the nuclei of blood-corpuscles .
The author then describes the mode of origin of the flat filament or fibre , and its reproduction in various animal and vegetable tissues , which he enumerates .
He conceives that each filament is a compound body which enlarges , and , from analogy , may contain the elements of future structures , formed by division and subdivision , to which no limits can be assigned .
He then traces the formation of muscle out of cells , which , according to his observations , are derived from corpuscles of the blood , to the state where there exists what is denominated the fibril .
In this process , there are to be observed the formation of a second order of tubes within the original tube ; a peculiarly regular arrangement of discs within these second tubes ; the formation , first of rings and then of spirals , out of discs so arranged ; the interlacing of the spirals ; and the origin , in the space circumscribed by these , of spirals having a minuter size ; which in their turn surround others still more mi ?
nute ; and so on .
The outer spirals enter for the most part into the formation of the investing membrane discovered by Schwann , but for the only complete description of which , in a formed state , we are indebted to Mr. Bowman .
The inner spirals constitute what are denominated the fibrillae .
The fibril appears to the author to be no other than a state of the object which he designates a flat filament ; and which , as he shows , is a compound structure .
The fibril he finds to be , not round and beaded , as it has been supposed , but a flat and grooved filament ; the description above given of the structure of the filament being especially applicable here .
This flat filament is so situated in the fasciculus of voluntary muscle , as to present its edge to the observer .
It seems to have been the appearance presented by the edge of this filament , that is to say , by the curves of a spiral thread , that suggested the idea of longitudinal bead-like enlargements of the fibril , as producing striae in the fasciculus of volun ?
tarry muscle .
In the author 's opinion , the dark longitudinal striae are spaces ( probably occupied by a lubricating fluid ) between the edges of flat filaments , each filament being composed of two spiral threads , and the dark transverse striae , rows of spaces between the curves of these spiral threads .
The filament now mentioned , or its edge , seems to correspond to the primitive marked thread or cylinder of Fontana ?
to the primitive fibre of Valentin and Schwann ?
to the marked filament of Skey ?
to the elementary fibre of Mandl ?
to the beaded fibril of Schwann , Miiller , Lauth , and Bowman ?
and to the granular fibre of Gerber .
The changes known to be produced by the alternate shortening and lengthening of a single spiral are exhibited in the microscope by a fasciculus of spirals , not only in its length and thickness , but in the width of the spaces ( strice ) between the curves of the spirals .
And a muscle being no other than a vast bundle of spirals , it is in contraction short and thick ; while in relaxation it is long and thin ; and thus there occurs no flattening of bead-like segments in contraction .
The author has found no segments that could undergo this change .
These observations on the form of the ultimate threads in voluntary muscle , were first made on the larva of a Batrachian reptile ; and have been confirmed by an examination of this structure in each class of vertebrated animals , as well as in the Crustacea , Mollusca , Annelida , and Insects .
He finds that the toothed fibre , discovered by Sir David Brewster in the crystalline lens , is formed out of an enlarged filament ; the projecting portions of the spiral threads in the filament , that is , the apparent segments , becoming the teeth of that fibre .
The compound filaments are seen with peculiar distinctness in the blood-vessels of the arachnoid membrane .
In connexion with the spiral direction of the outer filament in these vessels , the author refers to the rouleaux in which the red blood-discs are seen to arrange themselves , in the microscope , as probably indicating a tendency to produce spiral filaments .
To form rouleaux , corpuscle joins itself to corpuscle , that is to say , ring to ring ; and rings pass into coils .
The union of such coils , end to end , would form a spiral .
But the formation by the blood-corpuscles of these rouleaux is interesting in connexion with some facts recorded by the author in a former me ?
moir ; namely , that many structures , including blood-vessels , have their origin in rows of cells derived from corpuscles of the blood .
The hue ?
man spermatozoon presented a disc with a pellucid depression , each of the two sides of the peripheral portion of which was extended into a thread ; these two threads forming by being twisted the part usually designated as the tail .
The occurrence of two tails , observed by Wagner , is accounted for by the author by the untwisting of these threads .
The author has noticed very curious resemblances in mould , arising from the decay of organic matter , to early stages in the formation of the most elaborate animal tissues , more particularly nerve and muscle .
Flax has afforded satisfactory evidence of identity , not only in structure , but in the mode of reproduction , between animal and vegetable fibre .
Valentin had previously stated that in plants all secondary deposits take place in spiral lines .
Inthe internal structure of animals , spirals have herotofore seemed to be wanting , or very nearly so .
Should the facts recorded in this memoir , however , be established by the researches of other investigators , the author thinks the question in fu ?
ture may perhaps be , where is the " secondary deposit " in animal structure , which is not connected with the spiral form ?
The spiral in animals , as he conceives he has shown , is in strictness not a se ?
condary formation , but the most primary of all ; and the question now is , whether it is not precisely so in plants .
In a postscript the author observes , that there are states of volun ?
tarry muscle in which the longitudinal filaments ( " fibrillae " ) have no concern in the production of the transverse striae ; these striae being occasioned by the windings of spirals , within which very minute bundles of longitudinal filaments are contained and have their origin .
The spirals are interlaced .
When mature , they are flat and grooved filaments , having the compound structure above described .
With the shortening of the longitudinal filaments ( " fibrillae " ) in muscular contraction , the surrounding spirals , and of course the striae , become elongated and narrow ; while in relaxation these changes are reversed .
January 13 , 1842 .
SIR JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK , Bart. , V.P. and Treas .
, in the Chair .
Edward Hodgcs Bailey , Esq. , R.A. , Wiliiam Fishburn Donkin , Esq. , M.A , , and Charles James Buchanan Riddell , Esq. , Lieut. in the Royal Artillery , were balloted for , and severally elected Fellows of the Society .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " Researches in Physical Geo ?
logy : " Third Series .
By Wiliiam Hopkins , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S.

