Experimental Researches in Electricity.-Fifth Series .
By MICHAEL FARADAY , D.C.L. , F.R.S. 8gc .
, Fullerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution , Corr. Memb. Royal and Imp .
Acad. of Sciences , Paris , Petersburgh , Florence , Copenhagen , Berlin , Sfc .
&amp; -c .
Received June 18 , -Read June 20 , 1833 .
ยง 11 .
On Electro-chemical Decomposition . ?
i. New conditions of Electrochemical Decomposition .
I ii .
Influence of Water in Electrochemical Decomposition . ?
1 iii .
Theory of Electro-chemical Deconmposition .
ยง 11 .
On Electro-chemical Decomposition .
450 .
1 HAVE in a recent series of these Researches ( 265 .
) proved ( to my own satisfaction , at least , ) the identity of electricities derived from different sources , and have especially dwelt upon the proofs of the sameness of those obtained by the use of the common electrical machine and of the voltaic battery .
451 .
The great distinction of the electricities obtained from these two sources is the very high tension to which the small quantity obtained by aid of the machine may be raised , and the enormous quantity ( 371 .
376 .
) in which that of comparatively low tension , supplied by the voltaic battery , may be procured ; but as their actions , whether magnetical , chemical , or of any other nature , are essentially the same ( 360 .
) , it appeared evident that we might reason from the former as to the manner of action of the latter ; and it was to me a probable consequence , that the use of electricity of such intensity as that afforded by the machine , would , when applied to effect and elucidate electrochemical decomposition , show some new conditions of that action , evolve new views of the internal arrangements and changes of the substances under decomposition , and perhaps give.efficient powers over matter as yet undecomposed .
452 .
For the purpose of rendering the bearings of the different parts of this series of researches more distinct , I shall divide it into several heads .
[ i. New conditions of Electro-chemical Decomposition .
453 .
The tension of machine electricity causes it , however small in quantity , to pass through any length of water , solutions , or other substances classing with these as conductors , as fast as it can be produced , and therefore , in relation to quantity , as fast as it could have passed through much shorter portions of the same conducting substance .
With the voltaic battery the case is very different , and the passing current of electricity supplied by it suffers serious diminution in any substance , by considerable extension of its length , but especially in such bodies as those mentioned above .
454 .
I endeavoured to apply this facility of transmitting the current of electricity through any length of a conductor , to an investigation of the transfer of the elements in a decomposing body , in contrary directions , towards the poles .
The general form of apparatus used in these experiments has been already described ( 312 .
316 .
) ; and also a particular experiment ( 319 .
) , in which , when a piece of litmus paper and a piece of turmeric paper were combined and moistened in solution of sulphate of soda , the point of the wire from the machine ( representing the positive pole ) put upon the litmus paper , and the receiving point from the discharging train ( 292 .
316 .
) , representing the negative pole , upon the turmeric paper , a very few turns of the machine sufficed to show the evolution of acid at the former , and alkali at the latter , exactly in the manner effected by a volta-electric current .
455 .
The pieces of litmus and turmeric paper were now placed each upon a separate plate of glass , and connected by an insulated string four feet long , moistened in the same solution of sulphate of soda : the terminal decomposing wire points were placed upon the papers as before .
On working the machine , the same evolution of acid and alkali appeared as in the former instance , and with equal readiness , notwithstanding that the places of their appearance were four feet apart from each other .
Finally , a piece of string , seventy feet long , was used .
It was insulated in the air by suspenders of silk , so that the electricity passed through its entire length : decomposition took place exactly as in former cases , alkali and acid appearing at the two extremities in their proper places .
456 .
Experiments were then made both with sulphate of soda and iodide of potassium , to ascertain if any diminution of decomposing effect was produced by such great extension of the moist conductor orI body under decomposition ; but whether the contact of the decomposing point connected with the discharging train was made with turmeric paper touching the prime conductor , or with other turmeric paper connected with it through the seventy feet of string , the spot of alkali for an equal number of turns of the machine had equal intensity of colour .
The same seresults occurred at the other decomposing wire , whether the salt or the iodide were used ; and it was fully proved that this great extension of the distance between the poles produced no effect whatever on the amount of decomposition , provided the same quantity of electricity were passed in both cases ( 377 .
) .
457 .
The negative point of the discharging train , the turmeric paper , and the string were then removed ; the positive point was left resting upon the litmus paper , and the latter touched by a piece of moistened string held in the hand .
A few turns of the machine evolved acid at the positive point as freely as before .
458 .
The end of the moistened string , instead of being held in the hand , was suspended by glass in the air .
On working the machine the electricity proceeded from the conductor through the wire point to the litmus paper , and thence away by the intervention of the string to the air , so that there was ( as in the last experiment , ) but one metallic pole ; still acid was evolved there as freely as in any former case .
459 .
When any of these experiments were repeated with electricity from the negative conductor , corresponding effects were produced whether one or two decolnposing wires were used .
The results were always constant , being considered in relation to the direction of the electric current .
460 .
These experiments were varied so as to include the action of only one Imetallic pole , but that not the pole connected with the machine .
Turmerlic paper was moistened in solution of sulphate of soda , placed upon glass , and connected with the discharging train ( 292 .
) by a decomposing wire ( 312 .
) ; a piece of wet string was hung from it , the lower extremity of which was brought opposite a point connected with the positive prime conductor of the machine .
The machine was then worked for a few turns , and alkali immediately appeared at the point of the discharging train which rested on the turmeric paper .
Corresponding effects took place at the negative conductor of a machine .
461 .
These cases are abundantly sufficient to show that electro-cllemical de4 s2 677 composition does not depend upon the simultaneous action of two metallic poles , since a single pole might be used , decomposition ensue , and one or other of the elements liberated , pass to the pole , according as it was positive or negative .
In considering the course taken by , and the final arrangement of , the other element , I had little doubt that I should find it had receded towards the other extremity , and that the air itself had acted as a pole , an expectation which was fully confirmed in the following manner .
462 .
A piece of turmeric paper , not more than 04 of an inch in length and 0 05 of an inch in width , was moistened with sulphate of soda and placed upon the edge of a glass plate opposite to , and about two inches from , a point connected with the discharging train ( Plate XIX .
fig. 1 .
) ; a piece of tinfoil , resting upon the same glass plate , was connected with the machine , and also with the turmeric paper , by a decomposing wire a ( 312 ) .
The machine was then worked , the positive electricity passing into the turmeric paper at the point p , and out at the extremity n. After forty or fifty turns of the machine , the extremity n was examined , and the two points or angles found deeply coloured by the presence of free alkali ( fig. 2 .
) .
463 .
A similar piece of litmus paper , dipped in solution of sulphate of soda n , fig. 3 , was now supported upon the end of the discharging train a , and its extremity brought opposite a point p , connected with the conductor of the machine .
After working the machine for a short time , acid was developed at both the corners towards the point , i. e. at both the corners receiving the electricities from the air .
Every precaution was taken to prevent this acid from being formed by sparks or brushes passing through the air ( 322 .
) ; and these , with the accompanying general facts , are sufficient to show that the acid was really the result of electro-chemical decomposition ( 466 .
) .
464 .
Then a long piece of turmeric paper , large at one end and pointed at the other , was moistened in the saline solution , and immediately connected with the conductor of the machine , so that its pointed extremity was opposite a point upon the discharging train .
When the machine was worked , alkali was evolved at that point ; and even when the discharging train was removed , and the electricity left to be diffused and carried off altogether by the air , still alkali was evolved where the electricity left the turmneric paper .
465 .
Arrangements were then made in which no metallic communication with the decomposing matter was allowed , but both poles ( if they might now be called by that name , ) formed of air only .
A piece of turmeric paper a , fig. 4 , and a piece of litmus paper b , were dipped in solution of sulphate of soda , put together so as to form one moist pointed conductor , and supported on wax between two needle points , one p connected by a wire with the conductor of the machine , and the other , n , with the discharging train .
The interval in each case between the points was about half an inch : the positive point p was opposite the litmus paper ; the negative point n opposite the turmeric .
The machine was then worked for a time , upon which evidence of decomposition quickly appeared , for the point of the litmus b became reddened from acid evolved there , and the point of the turmeric a red from a similar and simultaneous evolution of alkali .
466 .
Upon turning the paper conductor round , so that the litmus point should now give off the positive electricity , and the turmeric point receive it , and working the machine for a short time , both the red spots disappeared , and as on continuing the action of the machine no red spot was re-formed at the litmus extremity , it proved that in the first instance ( 463 .
) the effect was not due to the action of brushes or mere electric discharges causing the formation of nitric acid from the air ( 322 .
) .
467 .
If the combined litmus and turmeric paper in this experiment be considered as constituting a conductor independent of the machine or the discharging train , and the final places of the elements evolved be considered in relation to this conductor , then it will be found that the acid collects at the negative or receiving end or pole of the arrangement , and the alkali at the positive or delivering extremity .
468 .
Similar litmus and turmeric paper points were now placed upon glass plates , and connected by a string six feet long , both string and paper being moistened in solution of sulphate of soda ; a needle point connected with the machine was brought opposite the litmus paper point , and another needle point connected with the discharging train brought opposite the turmeric paper .
On working the machine , acid appeared on the litmus , and alkali on the turmeric paper ; but the latter was not so abundant as in former cases , for much of the electricity passed off from the string into the air , and diminished the quantity discharged at the turmeric point .
679 Finally , a series of four small compound conductors , consisting of litmus and turmeric paper ( fig. 5 .
) moistened in solution of sulphate of soda , were supported on glass rods , in a line at a little distance from each other , between the points p and n of the niachine and discharging train , so that the electricity might pass in succession through them , entering in at the litmus points b , b , and passing out at the turmeric points a , a. On working the machine carefully , so as to avoid sparks and brushes ( 322 .
) , I soon obtained evidence of decomposition in each of the moist conductors , for all the litmus points exhibited free acid , and the turmeric points equally showed free alkali .
470 .
On using solutions of iodide of potassium , acetate of lead , &amp;c. , similar effects were obtained ; but as they were all consistent with the results above described , I refrain from describing the appearances minutely .
471 .
These cases of electro-chemical decomposition are in their nature exactly of the same kind as those effected under ordinary circumstances by the voltaic battery , notwithstanding the great differences as to the presence or absence , or at least as to the nature of the parts usually called poles ; and also of the final situation of the elements eliminated at the boundary electrified surfaces ( 467 .
) .
They indicate at once an internal action of the parts suffering decomposition , and appear to show that the power which is effectual in separating the elements is exerted there , and not at the poles .
But I shall defer the consideration of this point for a short time ( 493 .
518 .
) , that I may previously consider another supposed condition of electro-chemical decomposition * .
ii .
Influence of Water in Electro-chemical Decomposition .
472 .
It is the opinion of several philosophers , that the presence of water is essential in electro-chemical decomposition , and also for the evolution of electricity by the voltaic battery itself .
As the decomposing cell is merely one of the cells of the battery , into which particular substances are introduced for the purpose of experiment , it is probable that what is an essential condition in the one case is more or less so in the other .
The opinion , therefore , that water is necessary to decomposition , may have been founded on the statement made by Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , that " there are no fluids known , except such as contain water , which are capable of being made the medium of connexion between the metals or metal of the voltaic apparatus : " and again , " when any substance rendered fluid by heat , consisting of water , oxygen , and inflammable or metallic matter , is exposed to those wires , similar phenomena ( of decomposition ) occur- .
" 473 .
This opinion has , I think , been shown by other philosophers not to be accurate , though I do not know where to refer for a contradiction of it .
Sir HUMPHRY DAVY himself said in 1801$ , that dry nitre , caustic potash and soda are conductors of galvanismn when rendered fluid by a high degree of heat ; but he must have considered them , or the nitre at least , as not suffering decomposition , for the statements above were made by him eleven years subsequently .
In 1826 he also pointed out , that bodies not containing water , as fused litharge and chlorate of potassa , were sufficient to form , with platina and zinc , powerful electromotive circles ?
; but he is here speaking of the production of electricity in the pile , and not of its effects when evolved ; nor do his words at all imply that any correction of his former distinct statements relative to decomposition was required .
474 .
I may refer to the last series of these Experimental Researches ( 380 .
402 .
) as setting the matter at rest , by proving that there are hundreds of bodies equally influential with water in this respect .
That amongst binary compounds , oxides , chlorides , iodides , and even sulphurets ( 402 .
) were effective ; and * Elements of Chemical Philosophy , p. 169 , &amp;c. t Ibid. pp. 144 , 145 .
1 Journal of the Royal Institution , 1802 , p. 53 . ?
Philosophical Transactions , 1826 , p. 406 .
that amongst more complicated compounds , cyanides and salts , of equal efficacy , occurred in great numbers ( 402 .
) .
475 .
Water , therefore , is in this respect merely one of a very numerous class of substances , instead of being the only one and essential ; and it is of that class one of the worst as to its capability of facilitating conduction and suffering decomposition .
The reasons why it obtained for a time an exclusive character which it so little deserved are evident , and consist , in the general necessity of a fluid condition ( 394 .
) ; in its being the only one of this class of bodies existing in the fluid state at common temperatures ; its abundant supply as the great natural solvent ; and its constant use in that character in philosophical investigations , because of its having less interfering , injurious , or complicating action upon the bodies , either dissolved or evolved , than any other substance .
476 .
The analogy of the decomposing or experimental cell to the other cells of the voltaic battery , renders it nearly certain that any of those substances which are decomposable when fluid , as described in my last paper ( 402 .
) , would , if they could be introduced between the metallic plates of the pile , be equally effectual with water , if not more so .
Sir HIUMPHRY DAVY found that litharge and chlorate of potassa were thus effectual* .
I have constructed various voltaic arrangements , and found the above conclusion to hold good .
When any of the following substances in a fused state were interposed between copper and platina , voltaic action more or less powerful was produced .
Nitre ; chlorate of potassa ; carbonate of potassa ; sulphate of soda ; chloride of lead , of sodium , of bismuth , of calcium ; iodide of lead ; oxide of bismuth ; oxide of lead : the electric current was in the same direction as if acids had acted upon the metals .
When any of the same substances , or phosphate of soda , were made to act on platina and iron , still more powerful voltaic combinations of the same kind were produced .
When either nitrate of silver or chloride of silver was the fluid substance interposed , there was voltaic action , but the electric current was in the reverse direction . ?
iii .
Theory of Electro-chemical Decomposition .
477 .
The extreme beauty and value of electro-chemical decompositions have given to that power which the voltaic pile possesses of causing their occur* Philosophical Transactions , 1826 , p. 406 .
rence an interest surpassing that of any other of its properties ; for the power is not only intimately connected with the continuance , if not the production , of the electrical phenomena , but has furnished us with the most beautiful demonstrations of the nature of many compound bodies ; has in the hands of BECQUEREL been employed in compounding bodies ; has given us several new substances , and sustains us with the hope that when thoroughly understood it will produce many more .
478 .
What may be considered as the general facts of electro-chemical decomposition are agreed to by nearly all who have written on the subject .
They consist in the separation of the decomposable substance acted upon into its proximate or sometimes ultimate principles , whenever both poles of the pile are in contact with that substance in a proper condition ; in the evolution of these principles at distant points , i. e. at the poles of the pile where they are either finally set free or enter into union with the substance of the poles ; and in the constant determination of the evolved elements or principles to particular poles according to certain well ascertained laws .
479 .
But the views of men of science vary much as to the nature of the action by which these effects are produced ; and as it is certain that we shall be better able to apply the power when we really understand the manner in which it operates , this difference of opinion is a strong inducement to further inquiry .
I have been led to hope that the following investigations might be considered , not as an increase of that which is doubtful , but a real addition to this branch of knowledge .
480 .
It will be needful that I briefly state the views of electro-chemical decomposition already put forth , that their present contradictory and unsatisfactory state may be seen before I give that which seems to me more accurately to agree with facts ; and I have ventured to discuss them freely , trusting that I should give no offence to their high-minded authors ; for I felt convinced that if I were right , they would be pleased that their views should serve as steppingstones for the advance of science , and that if I were wrong , they would excuse the zeal which misled me , since it was exerted for the service of that great cause whose prosperity and progress they have desired .
481 .
GROTTHUSS , in the year 1805 , wrote expressly on the decomposition of liquids by voltaic electricity .
He considers the pile as an electric magnet , i. e. as an attractive agent the poles having attractive and repelling powers .
The pole from whence resinous electricity issues attracts hydrogen and repels oxygen , whilst that from which vitreous electricity proceeds attracts oxygen and repels hydrogen ; so that each of the elements of a particle of water , for instance , is subject to an attractive and a repulsive force , acting in contrary directions , the centres of action of which are reciprocally opposed .
The action of each force in relation to a molecule of water situated in the course of the electric current is in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance at which it is exerted , thus giving ( it is stated ) for such a molecule a constant forcet .
He explains the appearance of the elements at a distance from each other by referring to a succession of decompositions and r ecompositions occurring amongst the intervening particles+ , and he thinks it probable that those which are about to separate at the poles unite to the two electricities there , and in consequence become gases ? .
482 .
Sir HUMPHRY DAVY'S celebrated Bakerian Lecture on some chemical agencies of electricity was read in November 1806 , and is almost entirely occupied in the consideration of electro-chemical decompositions .
The facts are of the utmost value , and , with the general points established , are universally known .
The mode of action by which the effects take place is stated very generally , so generally , indeed , that probably a dozen precise schemes of electro-chemical action might be drawn up , differing essentially from each other , yet all agreeing with the statement there given .
483 .
When Sir HUMPHRY DAVY uses more particular expressions , he seems to refer the decomposing effects to the attractions of the poles .
This is the case in the " general expression of facts " given at pp. 28 and 29 of the Philosophical Transactions for 1807 , also at p. 30 .
Again , at p. 160 of the Elements of Chemical Philosophy , he speaks of the great attracting powers of the surfaces of the poles .
He mentions the probability of a succession of decompositions and recompositions throughout the fluid , -agreeing in that respect with GROTTHUSS | ] ; * Annals de Chimie , 1806 , tom .
Iviii .
p. 64 .
t Ibid. pp. 66 , 67 , also torn .
Ixiii .
p. 20 .
+ Ibid. tomrn .
lviii .
p. 68 , tom .
Ixiii .
p. 20 . ?
Ibid. tomr .
xiii .
p. 34 .
II Philosophical Transactions , 1807 , pp. 29 , 30 .
and supposes that the attractive and repellent agencies may be communicated from the metallic surfaces throughout the whole of the menstruum* , being communicated from one particle to another particle of the same kindt , and diminishing in strength from the place of the poles to the middle point , which is necessarily neutral+ .
In reference to this diminution of power at increased distances from the poles , he states that in a circuit of ten inches of water , solution of sulphate of potassa placed four inches from the positive pole , did not decompose ; whereas when only two inches from that pole , it did render up its elements ? .
484 .
When in 1826 Sir HUMPHRY DAVY wrote again on this subject , he stated that he found nothing to alter in the fundamental theory laid down in the original communication 11 , and uses the terms attraction and repulsion apparently in the same sense as before T[ .
485 .
Messrs. RIFFAULT and CHOMPRE experimented on this subject in 1807 .
They came to the conclusion that the voltaic current caused decompositions throughout its whole course in the humid conductor , not merely as preliminary to the recompositions spoken of by GROTTHUss and DAVY , but producing final separation of the elements in the course of the current , and elsewhere than at the poles .
They considered the negative current as collecting and carrying the acids , &amp;c. , to the positive pole , and the positive current as doing the same duty with the bases , and collecting them at the negative pole .
They likewise consider the currents as more powerful the nearer they are to their respective poles , and state that the positive current is superior in power to the negative current** , .
486 .
M. BIOT is very cautious in expressing an opinion as to the cause of the separation of the elements of a compound body+f .
But as far as the effects can be understood , he refers them to the opposite electrical states of the portions of the decomposing substance in the neighbourhood of the two poles .
The fluid is most positive at the positive pole ; that state gradually diminishes to the middle distance , where the fluid is neutral or not electrical ; but from thence to the negative pole it becomes more and more negative++ .
When a particle of salt is decomposed at the negative pole , the acid particle is considered s acquiring a negative electrical state from the pole stronger than that of the surrounding undecomposed particles , and is therefore repelled from amongst them , and from out of that portion of the liquid towards the positive pole , towards which also it is drawn by the attriaction of the pole itself and the particles of positive undecomposed fluid around it * .
487 .
M. BIOT does not appear to admit the successive decompositions and recompositions spoken of by GROTTHUSS , DAvY , &amp;c. &amp;c. ; but seems to consider the substance whilst in transit as combined with , or rather attached to , the electricity for the time p , and though it communicates this electricity to the surrounding undecomposed matter with which it is in contact , yet it retains during the transit a little superiority with respect to that kind which it first received from the pole , and is , by virtue of that difference , carried forward through the fluid to the opposite pole + .
488 .
This theory implies that decomposition takes place at both poles upon distinct portions of fluid , and not at all in the intervening parts .
The latter serve merely as imperfect conductors , which , assuming an electric state , urge particles electrified more highly at the poles through them in opposite directions , by virtue of a series of ordinary electrical attractions and repulsions ? .
489 .
M. A. DE LA RIVE investigated this subject particularly , and published a paper on it in 1825 1 - .
I-e thinks those who have referred the phenomena to the attractive powers of the poles , express the fact generally , rather than give any explication of it .
He considers the results as due to an actual combination of the elements , or rather of half of them , with the electricities passing from the poles in consequence of a kind of play of affinities between the matter and electricity ? .
The current from the positive pole combining with the hydrogen , or the bases it finds there , leaves the oxygen and acids at liberty , but carries the substances it is united with across to the negative pole , where , because of the peculiar character of the metal as a conductor ** , it is separated from them , entering the metal , and leaving the hydrogen or bases upon its surface .
In the same manner the electricity from the negative pole sets the hydrogen and bases which it finds there , free , but combines with the oxygen and acids , carries them across to the positive pole , and there deposits them F In this respect M. DE LA RIVE'S hypothesis accords in part with that of MM .
RIFFAULT and CHOMPRE ( 485 .
) .
490 .
M. DE LA RIVE considers the portions of matter which are decomposed to be those contiguous to both poles+ .
He does not admit with others the successive decompositions and recompositions in the whole course of the electriicity through the humid conductor , but thinks the middle parts are in themselves lanaltered , or at least serve only to conduct the two contrary currents of electricity and matter which set off from the opposite poles ? .
The decomposition , therefore , of a particle of water , or a particle of salt , may take place at either pole , and when once effected , it is final for the time , no recombination taking place , except the momentary union of the transferred particle with the electricity be so considered .
491 .
The latest communication that I am aware of on the subject is by M. HACHETTE : its date is October 1832 1| .
It is incidental to the description of the decomposition of water by the magneto-electric currents ( 346 .
) .
One of the results of the experiment is , that " it is not necessary , as has been supposed , that for the chemical decomposition of water , the action of the two electricities , positive and negative , should be simultaneous .
" 492 .
It is more than probable that many other views of electro-chemical decomposition may have been published , and perhaps amongst them some which , differing from those above , might , even in my own opinion , were I acquainted with them , obviate the necessity for the publication of my views .
If such be the case , I have to regret my ignorance of them , and apologize to the authors .
493 .
That electro-chemical decomposition does not depend upon any direct attraction and repulsion of the poles ( meaning thereby the metallic terminations either of the voltaic battery , or ordinary electrical machine arrangements ( 312 .
) , ) upon the elements in contact with or near to them , appeared very evident from the experiments made in air ( 462 , 465 , &amp;c. ) , when the substances evolved did not collect about any poles , but , in obedience to the direction * Annals de Chimie , tom .
xxviii .
p. 201 .
t Ibid. pp. 197 , 198 .
$ Ibid. pp. 192 , 199 . ?
Ibid. p. 200 .
|1 Ibid. tom .
li .
p. 73 .
of the current , were evolved , and I would say ejected , at the extremities of the decomposing substance .
But notwithstanding the extreme dissimilarity in the character of air and metals , and the almost total difference existing between them as to their mode of conducting electricity , and becoming charged with it , it might perhaps still be contended , although quite hypothetically , that the bounding portions of air were now the surfaces or places of attraction , as the metals had been supposed to be before .
In illustration of this and other points , I endeavoured to devise an arrangement by which I could decompose a body against a surface of water , as well as against air or metal , and succeeded in doing so unexceptionably in the following manner .
As the experiment for very natural reasons requires many precautions , to be successful , and will be referred to hereafter in illustration of the views I shall venture to give , I must describe it minutely .
494 .
A glass basin ( fig. 6 .
) , four inches in diameter and four inches deep , bad a division of mica a , fixed across the upper part so as to descend one inch and a half below the edge , and be perfectly water-tight at the sides : a plate of platina 6 , three inches wide , was put into the basin on one side of the division a , and retained there by a glass block below , so that any gas produced by it in a future stage of the experiment should not ascend beyond the mica , and cause currents in the liquid on that side .
A strong solution of sulphate of magnesia was carefully poured without splashing into the basin , until it rose a little above the lower edge of the mica division a , great care being taken that the glass or mica on the unoccupied or c side of the division in the figure , should not be moistened by agitation of the solution above the level to which it rose .
A thin piece of clean cork , well wetted in distilled water , was then carefully and lightly placed on the solution at the c side , and distilled water poured gently on to it until a stratum the eighth of an inch in thickness appeared over the sulphate of magnesia ; all was then left for a few minutes , that any solution adhering to the cork might sink away from it , or be removed by the water on which it now floated ; and then more distilled water was added in a similar manner , until it reached nearly to the top of the glass .
In this way solution of the sulphate occupied the lower part of the glass , and also the upper on the right hand side of the mica ; but on the left hand side of the division a stratum of water from c to d , one inch and a half in depth , reposed upon it , the two presenting , when looked through horizontally , a very definite plane of contact .
A second platina pole e , was arranged so as to be just under the surface of the water , in a position nearly horizontal , a little inclination being given to it , that gas evolved during decomposition might escape : the part immersed was three inches and a half long by one inch wide , and about seven eighths of an inch of water intervened between it and the solution of sulphate of magnesia .
495 .
The latter pole e was now connected with the negative end of a voltaic battery , of forty pairs of plates four inches square , whilst the former pole b was connected with the positive end .
There was action and gas evolved at both poles ; but from the intervention of the pure water , the decomposition was very feeble compared to what the battery would have effected in a uniform solution .
After a little while ( less than a ninute , ) magnesia also appeared at the negative side : it did not make its appearance at the negative pole , but in the water , at the plane where the solution and the water met ; and on looking at it horizontally , it could be there perceived lying in the water upon the solution , not rising more than the fourth of an inch above the latter , whilst the water between it and the negative pole was perfectly clear .
On continuing the action , the bubbles of hydrogen rising upwards from the negative pole impressed a circulatory movement on the stratum of water , upwards in the middle , and downwards at the side , which gradually gave an ascending form to the cloud of magnesia in the part just under the pole , having an appearance as if it were there attracted to it ; but this was altogether an effect of the currents , and did not occur until long after the phenomena required were satisfactorily ascertained .
496 .
After a little while the voltaic communication was broken , and the platina poles removed with as little agitation as possible from the water and solution , for the purpose of examining the liquid adhering to them .
The pole e , when touched by turmeric paper , gave no traces of alkali , nor could anything but pure water be found upon it .
The pole b , though drawn through a much greater depth and quantity of fluid , was found so acid as to give abundant evidence to litmus paper , the tongue , and other tests .
Hence there had been no interference of alkaline salts in any way , undergoing first decomposition , and then causing the separation of the magnesia at a distance from the pole by mere chemical agencies .
This experiment was repeated again and again , and always successfully .
As , therefore , the substances evolved in cases of electro-chemical decomposition may be made to appear against air ( 465 .
469 .
) , -which , according to common language , is not a conductor , nor is decomposed ; or against water ( 495 .
) , which is a conductor , and can be decomposed , -as well as against the metal poles , which are excellent conductors , but undecomposable , there appears but little reason to consider the phenomena generally , as due to the attraction or attractive powers of the latter , when used in the ordinary way , since similar attractions can hardly be imagined in the former instances .
498 .
It may be said that the surfaces of air or of water in these cases become the poles , and exert attractive powers ; but what proof is there of that , except the fact that the matters evolved collect there , which is the point to be explained , and cannot be justly quoted as its own explanation ?
Or it may be said , that any section of the humid conductor , as that in the present case , where the solution and the water meet , may be considered as representing the pole .
But such does not appear to me to be the view of those who have written on the subject , certainly not of some of them , and is inconsistent with the supposed laws which they have assumed , as governing the diminution of power at increased distances from the poles .
499 .
GROTTHUSS , for instance , describes the poles as centres of attractive and repulsive forces ( 481 ) , these forces varying inversely as the squares of the distances , and says , therefore , that a particle placed anywhere between the poles will be acted upon by a constant force .
But the compound force , resulting from such a combination as he supposes , would be anything but a constant force ; it would evidently be a force greatest at the poles , and diminishing to the middle distance .
GROTTHUSS is right , however , in the fact , according to my experiments ( 502 .
505 .
) , that the particles are acted upon by equal force everywhere in the circuit , when the conditions of the experiment are the simplest possible ; but the fact is against his theory , and is also , I think , against all theori'es that place the decomposing effect in the attractive power of the poles .
500 .
Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , who also speaks of the diminution of power with increase of distance from the poles * ( 483 .
) , supposes , that when both poles are acting on substances to decompose them , still the power of decomposition diminishes to the middle distance .
In this statement of fact he is opposed to GROTTHUSS , and quotes an experiment in which sulphate of potassa , placed at different distances from the poles in a humid conductor of constant length , decomposed when near the pole , but not when at a distance .
Such a consequence would necessarily result theoretically from considering the poles as centres of attraction and repulsion ; but I have not found the statement borne out by other experiments ( 505 .
) ; and in the one quoted by him the effect was doubtless due to some of the many interfering causes of variation which attend such investigations .
501 .
A glass vessel had a platina plate fixed perpendicularly across it , so as to divide it into two cells : a head of mica was fixed over it , so as to collect the gas it might evolve during experiments ; then each cell , and the space beneath the mica , was filled with dilute sulphuric acid .
Two poles were provided , consisting each of a platina wire terminated by a plate of the same metal ; each was fixed into a tube passing through its upper end by an air-tight joint , that it might be moveable , and yet that the gas evolved at it might be collected .
The tubes were filled with the acid , and one immersed in each cell .
Each platina pole was equal in surface to one side of the dividing plate in the middle glass vessel , and the whole might be considered as an arranlgement between the poles of the battery of a humid decomposable conductor divided in the middle by the interposed platina diaphragm .
It was easy , when required , to draw one of the poles further up the tube , and then the platina diaphragm was no longer in the middle of the humid conductor .
But whether it were thus arranged at the middle , or towards one side , it always evolved a quantity of oxygen and hydrogen equal to that evolved by both the extreme plates* .
502 .
If the wires of a galvanometer be terminated by plates , and these be immersed in dilute acid , contained in a regularly formed rectangular glass trough , connected at each end with a voltaic battery by poles equal to the section of the fluid , a part of the electricity will pass through the instrument and cause a certain deflection .
And if the plates are always retained at the same distance from each other and from the sides of the trough , are always parallel to each other , and uniformly placed relative to the fluid , then , whether the galvanometer plates are immersed near the middle of the decomposing solution , or near one end , still the instrument will indicate the same deflection , and consequently the same electric influence .
503 .
It is very evident that when the width of the decomposing conductor varies , as is always the case when mere wires or plates , as poles , are dipped into or are surrounded by solution , no constant expression can be given as to the action upon a single particle placed in the course of the current , nor any conclusion of use relative to the supposed attractive or repulsive force of the poles be drawn .
The force will vary as the distance from the pole varies ; as the particle is directly between the poles , or more or less on one side ; and even as it is nearer to or further from the sides of the containing vessels , or as the shape of the vessel itself varies ; and , in fact , by making variations in the forl of the arrangement , the force upon any single particle may be made to increase , or diminish , or remain constant , whilst the distance between the particle and the pole shall remain the same ; or the force may be made to increase , or diminish , or remain constant , either as the distance increases or as it diminishes .
504 .
From numerous experiments , I am led to believe the following general expression to be correct ; but I purpose examining it much further , and would therefore wish not to be considered at present as pledged to its accuracy .
The sum of chemical decomposition is constant for any section taken across a decomposing conductor , uniform in its nature , at whatever distance the poles may be from each other or from the section ; or however that section may intersect the currents , whether directly across them , or so oblique as to reach almost from pole to pole , or whether it be plane , or curved , or irregular in the utmost degree ; provided the current of electricity be retained constant in quantity ( 377 .
) , and that the section include all portions of the current through the decomposing conductor .
505 .
I have reason to believe that the statement might be made still more general , and expressed thus : That for a constant quantity of electricity , whatever the decomposing conductor may be , whether water , saline solutions , acids , fused bodies , &amp;c. , the amount of electro-chemical action is also a constant quantity , L. e. would always be equivalent to a standard chemical effect founded upon ordinary chemical affinity .
I have this investigation in hand , with several others , and shall be prepared to give it in the next series but one of these Researches .
506 .
Many other arguments might be adduced against the hypotheses of the attraction of the poles being the cause of electro-chemical decomposition ; but I would rather pass on to the view I have thought more consistent with facts , with this single remark ; that if decomposition by the voltaic battery depended upon the attraction of the poles , or the parts about them , being stronger than the mutual attraction of the particles separated , it would follow that the weakest electrical attraction was stronger than , if not the strongest yet , very strong chemical attraction , namely , such as exists between oxygen and hydrogen , potassium and oxygen , chlorine and sodium , acid and alkali , &amp;c. , a consequence which , although perhaps not impossible , seems in the present state of the subject very unlikely .
507 .
The view which M. DE LAR RIVE has taken ( 489 .
) , and also MM .
RIFPAULT and CHOMPRE ( 485 ) , of the manner in which electro-chemical decomposition is effected , is very different to that already considered , and is not affected by either arguments or facts against the latter .
Considering it as stated by the former philosopher , it appears to me to be incompetent to account for the experiments of decomposition against surfaces of air ( 462 .
469 .
) and water ( 495 .
) , which I have described ; for if the physical differences between metals and humid conductors , which M. DE LA RIVE supposes to account for the transmission of the compound of matter and electricity in the latter , an the transmission of the electricity only with the rejection of the matter in the former , be allowed for a moment , still the relation of air to metal is , electrically considered , so small , that instead of the former replacing the latter ( 462 .
) , an effect the very reverse might have been expected .
Or if even that were allowed , the experiment with water ( 495 .
) , at once sets the matter at rest , the decomposing pole being now of a substance which is admitted as competent to transmit the compound of electricity and matter .
508 .
With regard to the views of MM .
RIFFAULT and CHOMPRE ( 485 .
) , the occurrence of deposition in the course of the current is so contrary to the well known effects obtained in the forms of experiment adopted up to this time , that it must be proved before the hypothesis depending on it need be considered .
4 u2 The consideration of the various theories of electro-chemical decomposition , whilst it has made me diffident , has also given me confidence to add another to the number ; for it is because the one I have to propose appears , after the most attentive consideration , to explain and agree with the immense collection of facts belonging to this branch of science , and to remain uncontradicted by , or unopposed to , any of them , that I have been encouraged to give it .
510 .
Electro-chemical decomposition is well known to depend essentially upon the current of electricity .
I have shown that in certain cases ( 375 .
) the decomposition is proportionate to the quantity of electricity passing , whatever may be its intensity or its source , and that the same is probably true for all cases ( 377 .
) , even when the utmost generality is taken on the one hand , and great precision of expression on the other .
511 .
In speaking of the current , I find myself obliged to be still more particular than on a former occasion ( 283 .
) , in consequence of the variety of views taken by philosophers , all agreeing in the effect of the current itself .
Some philosophers , with FRANKLIN , assume but one electric fluid ; and such must agree together in the general uniformity and character of the electric current .
Others assume two electric fluids ; and here singular differences have arisen , 512 .
MM .
RIFFAULT and CHOMPRE , for instance , consider the positive and negative currents each as causing decomposition , and state that the positive current is more powerful than the negative current* , the nitrate of soda being , under similar circumstances , decomposed by the former , but not by the latter .
513 .
M. HACHETTE statest that " it is not necessary , as has been believed , that the action of the two electricities , positive and negative , should be simultaneous for the decomposition of water .
" The passage implying , if I have caught the meaning aright , that one electricity can be obtained , and can be applied in effecting decompositions , independent of the other .
514 .
The view of M. DE LA RIVE to a certain extent agrees with that of M. HACHETTE , for he considers that the two electricities decompose separate portions of water ( 490.)+ .
In one passage he speaks of the two electricities as two influences , wishing perhaps to avoid offering a decided opinion upon the independent existence of electric fluids ; but as these influences are consi* Annals de Chimie , 1807 , tom .
lxiii .
p. 84 .
t Ibid. 1832 , tom .
ii .
p. 73 .
Ibid. 1825 , tom .
xxviii .
pp. 197 , 201 .
dered as combining with the elements set free as by a species of chemical affinity , and for the time entirely masking their character , great vagueness of idea is thus introduced , inasmuch as such species of combination can only be conceived to take place between things having independent existence .
The two elementary electric currents , moving in opposite directions , from pole to pole , constitute the ordinary voltaic current .
515 .
M. GROTTHUSS is inclined to believe that the elements of water , when about to separate at the poles , combine with the electricities , and so become gases .
M. DE LA RIVE'S view is the exact reverse of this : whilst passing through the fluid , they are , according to him , compounds with the electricities ; when evolved at the poles , they are de-electrified .
516 .
I have sought amongst the various experiments quoted in support of these views , or connected with electro-chemical decompositions or electric currents , for any which might be considered as sustaining the theory of two electricities rather than that of one , but have not been able to perceive a single fact which could be brought forward for such a purpose : or , admitting the hypothesis of two electricities , much less have I been able to perceive the slightest grounds for believing that one electricity in a current can be more powerful than the other , or that it can be present without the other , or that one can be varied , or in the slightest degree affected , without a corresponding variation in the other .
If , upon the supposition of two electricities , a current of one can be obtained without the other , or the current of one be exalted or diminished more than the other , we might surely expect some variation either of the chemical or magnetical effects , or of both ; but no such variations have been observed .
If a current be so directed that it may act chemically in one part of its course , and magnetically in another , the two actions are always found to take place together .
A current has not , to my knowledge , been produced which could act chemically and not magnetically , nor any which can act on the magnet , and not at the same time chemically* .
517 .
Judging from facts only , there is not as yet the slightest reason for considering the influence which is present in what we call the electric current , whether in metals or fused bodies or humid conductors , or even in air , flame , and rarefied elastic media , -as a compound or complicated influence .
It has never been resolved into simpler or elementary influences , and may perhaps best be conceived of as an axis of power having contraryfiforces , exactly equal in amount , in contrary directions .
518 .
Passing to the consideration of electro-chemical decomposition , it appears to me that the effect is produced by an internal corpuscular action , exerted according to the direction of the electric current , and that it is due to a force either superadded to , or giving diirection to the ordinary chemical affinity of the bodies present .
The decomposing body may be considered as a mass of acting particles , all those which are included in the course of the electric current contributing to the final effect ; and it is because the ordinary chemrical affinity is relieved , weakened , or partly neutralized by the influence of the electric current in one direction , parallel to the course of the latter , and strengthened or added to in the opposite direction , that the combining particles have a tendency to pass in opposite courses .
519 .
In this view the effect is considered as essentially dependent upon the mutual chemical affinity of the particles of opposite kinds .
Particles a a , fig. 7 , could not be transferred or travel from one pole N towards the other P , unless they found particles of the opposite kind b b , ready to pass in the contrary direction : for it is by virtue of their increased affinity for those particles , conbined with their diminished affinity for such as are belind them in their course , that they are urged forward : and when any one particle a , fig. 8 , arrives at the pole , it is excluded or set free , because the partticle b of the opposite kind , with which it was the moment before in combination , has , under the superinducing influence of the current , a greater attraction for the particle a ' , which is befoie it in its course , than for the particle a , towards which its affinity has been weakened .
520 .
As far as regards any single compound particle , the case may be considered as analogous to one of ordinary decomposition , for in fig. 8 , a may be conceived to be expelled from the compound ab by the superior attraction of a ' for b , that superior attraction belonging to it in consequence of the relative position of a ' b and a to the direction of the axis of electric power ( 517 .
) superinduced by the current .
But as all the compound particles in the course of the current , except those actually in contact with the poles , act conjointly , and consist of elementary particles , which , whilst they are in one direction expelling , are in the other being expelled , the case becomes more complicated , but not more difficult of comprehension .
521 .
It is not here assumed that the acting particles must be in a right line between the poles .
The lines of action which may be supposed to represent the electric currents passing through a decomposing liquid , have in many experiments very irregular forms ; and even in the simplest case of two wires or points immersed as poles in a drop , or larger single portion of fluid , these lines must diverge rapidly from the poles ; and the direction in which the chemical affinity between particles is most powerfully modified ( 519 .
520 .
) will vary with the direction of these lines , according constantly with them .
But even in reference to these lines or currents , it is not supposed that the particles which mutually affect each other must of necessity be parallel to them , but only that they shall accord generally with their direction .
Two particles , placed in a line perpendicular to the electric current passing in any particular place , are not supposed to have their ordinary chemical relations towards each other affected ; but as the line joining them is inclined one way to the current , the rret ir mutual affinity is increased ; as i is inclined in the other direction , it is diminished ; and the effect is a maximum , when that line is parallel to the current .
522 .
That the actions , of whatever kind they may be , take place frequently in oblique directions is evident from the circumstance of those particles being included which in numerous cases are not in a line between the poles .
Thus , when wires are used as poles in a glass of solution , the decompositions and recompositions occur to the right or left of the direct line between the poles , and indeed in every part to which the currents extend , as is proved by many experiments , and must therefore often occur between particles obliquely placed as respects the current itself ; and when a metallic vessel containing the solution is made one pole , whilst a mere point or wire is used for the other , the decompositions and recompositions must frequently be still more oblique to the course of the currents .
523 .
The theory which I have ventured to put forth ( almost ) requires an admission , that in a compound body capable of electro-chemical decomposition the elementary particles have a mutual relation to , and influence upon each other , extending beyond those with which they are immediately combined .
Thus in water , a particle of hydrogen in combination with oxygen is consideired 697 as not altogether indifferent to other particles of oxygen , although they are combined with other particles of hydrogen ; but to have an affinity or attraction towards them , which , though it does not at all approach in force , under ordinary circumstances , to that by which it is combined with its own particle , can under the electric influence , exerted in a definite direction , be made even to surpass it .
This general relation of particles already in combination to other particles with which they are not combined , is sufficiently distinct in numerous results of a purely chemical character , especially in those where partial decompositions only take place , and in BERTHOLLET'S experiments on the effects of quantity upon affinity ; and it probably has a direct relation to , and connexion with , attraction of aggregation , both in solids and fluids .
It is a remarkable circumstance , that in gases and vapours , where the attraction of aggregation ceases , there likewise the decomposing powers of electricity apparently cease , and there also the chemical action of quantity is no longer evident .
It seems not unlikely , that the inability to suffer decomposition in these cases may be dependent upon the absence of that mutual attractive relation of the particles which is the cause of aggregation .
524 .
I hope I have now distinctly stated , although in general terms , the view I entertain of the cause of electro-chemical decomposition , as far as that cause can at present be traced and understood .
I conceive the effects to arise from forces which are internal , relative to the matter under decompositionand not external , as they might be considered , if directly dependent upon the poles .
I suppose that the effects are due to a modification , by the electric current , of the chemical affinity of the particles through or by which that current is passing , giving them the power of acting more forcibly in one direction than in another , and consequently making them travel by a series of successive decompositions and recompositions in opposite directions , and finally causing their expulsion or exclusion at the boundaries of the decomposing body , in the direction of the current , and that in larger or smaller quantities , according as the current is more or less powerful ( 377 .
) .
I think , therefore , it would be more philosophical , and more directly expressive of the facts , to speak of a decomposing body , in relation to the current passing through it , rather than to the poles , as they are usually called , in contact with it ; and say that whilst under decomposition , oxygen , chlorine , iodine , acids , &amp;c. , are rendered at the negative extremity , and combustibles , metals , alkalies , bases , &amp;c. , at the positive extremity of the decomposing substance ( 467 .
) .
I do not believe that a substance can be transferred in the electric current beyond the point where it ceases to find particles with which it can combine ; and I may refer to the experiments made in air ( 465 .
) , and in water ( 495 .
) , already quoted , for facts illustrating these views in the first instance ; to which I will now add others .
525 .
In order to show the dependence of the decomposition and transfer of elements upon the chemical affinity of the substances present , experiments were made upon sulphuric acid in the following manner .
Dilute sulphuric acid was prepared : its specific gravity was 1021*2 .
A solution of sulphate of soda was also prepared , of such strength that a measure of it contained exactly as much sulphuric acid as an equal measure of the diluted acid just referred to .
A solution of pure soda , and another of pure ammonia , were likewise prepared , of such strengths that a measure of either should be exactly neutralized by a measure of the prepared sulphuric acid .
526 .
Four glass cups were then arranged , as in fig. 9 ; seventeen measures of the free sulphuric acid ( 525 .
) were put into each of the vessels a and b , and seventeen measures of the solution of sulphate of soda into each of the vessels A and B. Asbestus , which had been well washed in acid , acted upon by the voltaic pile , well washed in water , and dried by pressure , was used to connect a with b and A with B , the portions being as equal as they could be made in quantity , and cut as short as was consistent with their performing the part of effectual communications .
b and A were connected by two platina plates or poles soldered to the extremities of one wire , and the cups a and B were by similar platina plates connected with a voltaic battery of forty pairs of plates four inches square , that in a being connected with the negative , and that in B with the positive pole .
The battery , which was not powerfully charged , was retained in communication above half an hour .
In this manner it was certain that the same electric current had passed through ab and A B , and that in each instance the same quantity and strength of acid had been submitted to its action , but in one case merely dissolved in water , and in the other dissolved and also combined with an alkali .
527 .
On breaking the connexion with the battery , the portions of asbestus were lifted out , and the drops hanging at the ends allowed to fall each into its respective vessel .
The acids in a and b were then first compared , for which purpose two evaporating dishes were balanced , and the acid from a put into one , and that from b into the other ; but as one was a little heavier than the other , a small drop was transferred from the heavier to the lighter , and the two rendered equal in weight .
Being neutralized by addition of the soda solution ( 525 .
) , that from a , or the negative vessel , required 15 parts of the soda solution , and that from b , or the positive vessel , required 16'3 parts .
That the sum of these is not 34 parts is principally due to the acid removed with the asbestus ; but , taking the mean of 15'65 parts , it would appear that a twenty-fourth part of the acid originally in the vessel a had passed , through the influence of the electric current , from a into b. 528 .
In comparing the difference of acid in A and B , the necessary equality of weight was considered as of no consequence , because the solution was at first neutral , and would not , therefore , affect the test liquids , and all the evolved acid would be in B , and the free alkali in A. The solution in A required 3-2 measures of the prepared acid ( 525 .
) to neutralize it , and the solution in B required also 32 measures of the soda solution ( 525 .
) to neutralize it .
As the asbestus must have removed a little acid and alkali from the glasses , these quantities are by so much too small ; and therefore it would appear that about a tenth of the acid originally in the vessel A had been transferred into B during the continuance of the electric action .
529 .
In another similar experiment , whilst a thirty-fifth part of the acid passed from a to b in the free acid vessels , between a tenth and an eleventh passed from A to B in the combined acid vessels .
Other experiments of the same kind gave similar results .
530 .
The variation of electro-chemical decomposition , the transfer of elements and their accumulation at the poles , according as the substance submitted to action consists of particles opposed more or less in their chemical affinity , together with the consequent influence of the latter circumstances , are sufficiently obvious in these cases , where sulphuric acid is acted upon in the same quantity by the same electric current , but in one case opposed to the comparatively weak affinity of water for it , and in the other to the stronger one of soda .
In the latter case the quantity transferred is from two and a half to three times what it is in the former ; and it appears therefore very evident that the transfer is greatly dependent upon the mutual action of the particles of the decomposing bodies .
531 .
In some of the experiments the acid from the vessels a and b was neutralized by ammonia , then evaporated to dryness , heated to redness , and the residue examined for sulphates .
In these cases more sulphate was always obtained from a than from b ; showing that it had been impossible to exclude saline bases ( derived from the asbestus , the glass , or perhaps impurities originally in the acid , ) and that they had helped in transferring the acid into b. But the quantity was small , and the acid was principally transferred by relation to the water present .
532 .
I endeavoured to arrange certain experiments by which saline solutions should be decomposed against surfaces of water ; and at first worked with the electric machine upon a piece of bibulous paper , or asbestus moistened in the solution , and in contact at its two extremities with pointed pieces of paper moistened in pure water , which served to carry the electric current to and from the solution in the middle piece .
But I found numerous interfering difficulties .
Thus , the water and solutions in the pieces of paper could not be prevented from mingling at the point where they touched .
Again , sufficient acid could be derived from the paper connected with the discharging train , or it may be even from the air itself , under the influence of electric action , to neutralize the alkali developed at the positive extremity of the decomposing solution , and so not merely prevent its appearance , but actually transfer it on to the metal termination : and , in fact , when the paper points were not allowed to touch there , and the machine was worked until alkali was evolved at the delivering or positive end of the turmeric paper , containing the sulphate of soda solution , it was merely necessary to place the opposite receiving point of the paper connected with the discharging train , which had been moistened by distilled water , upon the browned turmeric point and press them together , when the alkaline effect immediately disappeared .
533 .
The experiment with sulphate of magnesia already described ( 495 .
) is a case in point , however , and shows most clearly that the sulphuric acid and magnesia contributed to each other 's transfer and final evolution , exactly as the same acid and soda affected each other in the results just given ( 527 , &amp;c. ) ; and that so soon as the magnesia advanced beyond the reach of the acid , and 4x 2 701 found no other substance with which it could combine , it appeared in its proper character , and was no longer able to continue its progress towards the negative pole .
534 .
The theory I have ventured to put forth appears to me to explain all the prominent features of electro-chemical decomposition in a satisfactory manner .
535 .
In the first place it explains why , in all ordinary cases , the evolved substances appear only at the poles ; for the poles are the limriting surfaces of the decomposing substance , and except at them , every particle finds other particles having a contrary tendency with which it can combine .
536 .
Then it explains why , in numerous cases , the elements or evolved substances are not retained by the poles ; and this is no small difficulty in those theories which refer the decomposing effect directly to the attractive power of the poles .
If a piece of platina have sufficient power given to it by any means to attract a particle of hydrogen from the particle of oxygen with which it was the instant before combined , there seems no sufficient reason , nor any fact , except those to be explained , which show why it should not , according to analogy with all ordinary attractive forces , as those of gravitation , the magnet , cohesion , chemical affinity , &amp;c. , retain that particle which it had just before taken from a distance and from previous combination .
Yet it does not do so , but allows it to escape freely .
Nor does this depend upon its assuming the gaseous state , for acids and alkalies , &amp;c. , are left equally at liberty to diffuse themselves through the fluid surrounding the pole , and show no particular tendency to combine with or cleave to the latter .
And though there are plenty of cases where combination with the pole does take place , they do not at all explain the instances of non-combination , and do not therefore in their particular action reveal the general principle of decomposition .
537 .
But in the theory that I have just given , the effect appears to be a natural consequence of the action : the evolved substances are expelled from the decomposing mass ( 518 .
519 .
) , not drawn out by an attraction which ceases to act on one particle without any assignable reason , while it continues to act on another of the same kind : and whether the poles be metal , water , or air , still the substances are evolved , and sometimes are set free , or sometimes unite to the matter of the poles , according to the chemical nature of the latter , i. e. the chemical relation of their ?
particles to those which are leaving the substance under operation .
The theory accounts for the transfer of elements in a manner which seems to me at present to leave nothing unexplained ; and it was , indeed , the phenomena of transfer in the numerous cases of decomposition of bodies rendered fluid by heat ( 380 .
402 .
) , which , in conjunction with the experiments in air , led to its construction .
Such cases as the former where binary compounds of easy decomposability are acted upon , are perhaps the best to illustrate the theory .
539 .
Chloride of lead , for instance , fused in a bent tube ( 400 .
) , and decomposed by platina wires , evolves lead , passing to what is usually called the negative pole , and chlorine , which being evolved at the positive pole , is in part set free , and in part combines with the platina .
The chloride formed , being soluble in the chloride of lead , is subject to decomposition , and the platina itself is gradually transferred across the decomposing matter , and found with the lead at the negative pole .
540 .
Iodide of lead evolves abundance of lead at the negative pole , and abundance of iodine at the positive pole .
541 .
Chloride of silver furnishes a beautiful instance , especially when decomposed by silver wire poles .
Upon fusing a portion of it on a piece of glass , and bringing the poles into contact with it , there is abundance of silver evolved at the negative pole , and an equal abundance absorbed at the positive pole , for no chlorine is set free ; and by careful management , the negative wire may be withdrawn from the fused globule a the silver is reduced there , the latter serving as the continuation of the pole , until a wire or thread of revived silver , five or six inches in length , is produced ; at the same time the silver at the positive pole is as rapidly dissolved by the chlorine , which seizes upon it , so that the wire has to be continually advanced as it is melted away .
The whole experiment includes the action of only two elements , silver and chlorine , and illustrates in a beautiful manner their progress in opposite directions , parallel to the electric current , which is for the time giving a uniform general direction to their mutual affinities ( 524 .
) .
542 .
According to my theory , an elemrent or a substance not decomposable under the circumstances of the experiment , ( as , for instance , a dilute acid or alkali , ) should not be transferred , or pass from pole to pole , unless it be in chemical relation to some other element or substance tending to pass in the opposite direction , for the effect is considered as essentially due to the mutual 703 relation of such particles .
But the theories attributing the determination of the elements to the attractions and repulsions of the poles require no such condition , i. e. there is no reason apparent why the attraction of the positive pole , and the repulsion of the negative pole , upon a particle of free acid , placed in water between them , should not ( with equal currents of electricity ) be as strong as if that particle were previously combined with alkali ; but , on the contrary , as they have not a powerful chemical affinity to overcome , there is every reason to suppose they would be stronger , and would sooner bring the acid to rest at the positive pole * .
Yet such is not the case , as has been shown by the experiments on free and combined acid ( 526 .
528 .
) .
543 .
Neither does M. DE LA RIVE'S theory , as I understand it , require that the particles should be in combination : it does not even admit , where there are two sets of particles capable of combining with and passing by each other , that they do combine , but supposes that they travel as separate compounds of matter and electricity .
Yet in fact , the free substance cannot travel , the combined one can .
544 .
It is very difficult to find cases amongst solutions or fluids which shall illustrate this point , because of the difficulty of finding two fluids which shall conduct , shall not mingle , and in which an element evolved from one shall not find a combinable element in the other .
Solutions of acids or alkalies will not answer , because they exist by virtue of an attraction ; and increasing the solubility of a body in one direction , and diminishing it in the opposite , is just as good a reason for transfer , as modifying the affinity between the acid and alkali themselves .
Nevertheless the case of sulphate of magnesia is in point ( 494 .
495 .
) , and shows that one element or principle only has no power of transference or of passing towards either pole .
545 .
Many of the metals , however , in their solid state , offer very fair instances of the kind required .
Thus , if a plate of platina be used as the positive pole in a solution of sulphuric acid , oxygen will pass towards it , and so will acid ; but these are not substances having such chemical relation to the platina as , even under the favourable condition superinduced by the current ( 518 .
524 .
) , to combine with it ; the platina therefore remains where it was first placed , and has no tendency to pass towards the negative pole .
But if a plate of iron , zinc or copper , be substituted for the platina , then the oxygen and acid can combine with these , and the metal immediately begins to travel as an oxide , to the opposite pole , and is finally deposited there .
Or if , retaining the platina pole , a fused chloride , as of lead , zinc , silver , &amp;c. , be substituted for the sulphuric acid , then , as the platina finds an element it can combine with , it enters into union , acts as other elements do in cases of voltaic decomposition , is rapidly transferred across the melted matter , and expelled at the negative pole .
546 .
I can see but little reason in the theories referring the electro-chemical decomposition to the attractions and repulsions of the poles , and I can perceive none in M. DE LA RIVE'S theory , why the metal of the positive pole should not be transferred across the intervening conductor , and deposited at the negative pole , even when it cannot act chemically upon the element of the fluid surrounding it .
It cannot be referred to the attraction of cohesion preventing such an effect ; for if the pole be made of the lightest spongy platina , the effect is the same .
Or if gold precipitated by sulphate of iron be diffused through the solution , still accumulation of it at the negative pole will not take place ; and yet in it the attraction of cohesion is almost perfectly overcome , the particles are so small as to remain for hours in suspension , and are perfectly free to move by the slightest impulse towards either pole ; and if in relation by chemical affinity to any substance present , are powerfully determined to the negative pole * .
547 .
In support of these arguments , it may be observed , that as yet no determination of a substance to a pole , or tendency of obedience to the electric current , has been observed ( that I am aware of , ) in cases of mere mixture ; i. e. a substance diffused through a fluid , but having no sensible chemical affinity with it , or with substances that may be evolved from it during the action , does not in any case seem to be affected by the electric current .
Pulverised charcoal was diffused through dilute sulphuric acid , and subjected with the solution to the action of a voltaic battery , terminated by platina poles ; but not the slightest tendency of the charcoal to the negative pole could be observed .
Sublimed sulphur was diffused through similar acid , and submitted to the same action , a silver plate being used as the negative pole ; but the sulphur had no tendency to pass to that pole , the silver was not tarnished , nor did any sulphuretted hydrogen appear .
The case of magnesia and water ( 495 .
533 .
) , with those of comminuted metals in certain solutions ( 546 .
) , are also of this kind ; and , in fact , substances which have the instant before been powerfully determined towards the pole , as magnesia from sulphate of magnesia , become entirely indifferent to it the moment they assume their independent state , and pass away , diffusing themselves in the surrounding fluid .
548 .
There are , it is true , many instances of insoluble bodies being acted upon , as glass , sulphate of baryta , marble , slate , basalt , &amp;c. , but they form no exception ; for the substances they give up are in direct and strong relation as to chemical affinity with those which they find in the surrounding solution , so that these decompositions enter into the class of ordinary effects .
549 .
It may be expressed as a general consequence , that the more directly bodies are opposed to each other in chemical affinity , the more ready is their separation from each other in cases of electro-chemical decomposition , i. e. provided other circumstances , as insolubility , deficient conducting power , proportions , &amp;c. , do not interfere .
This is well known to be the case with water and saline solutions ; and I have found it to be equally true with dry chlorides , iodides , salts , &amp;c. , rendered subject to electro-chemical decomposition by fusion ( 402 .
) .
So that in applying the voltaic battery for the purpose of decomposing bodies not yet resolved into forms of matter simpler than their own , it must be remembered , that success may depend not upon the weakness , or failure upon the strength , of the affinity by which the elements sought for are held together , but contrariwise ; and then modes of application may be devised by which , in association with ordinary chemical powers , and the assistance of fusion ( 394 .
417 .
) , we may be able to penetrate much further than at present into the constitution of our chemical elements .
550 .
Some of the most beautiful and surprising cases of electro-chemical decomposition and transfer which Sir HUMPHRY DAVY described in his celebrated paper* , were those in which acids were passed through alkalies , and alkalies or earths through acidsft ; and the way in which substances having the most powerful attractions for each other were thus prevented from combining , or , as it is said , had their natural affinity destroyed or suspended throughout the whole of the circuit , excited the utmost astonishment .
But if I be right in the view I have taken of the effects , it will appear , that that which made the wonder , is in fact the essential condition of transfer and decomposition , and that the more alkali there is in the course of an acid , the more will the transfer of that acid be facilitated from pole to pole ; and perhaps a better illustration of the difference between the theory I have ventured , and those previously existing , cannot be offered than the views they respectively give of such facts as these .
551 .
The instances in which sulphuric acid could not be passed through baryta , or baryta through sulphuric acid+ , because of the precipitation of sulphate of baryta , enter within the pale of the law already described ( 380 .
412 .
) , by which liquidity is so generally required .
In assuming the solid state of sulphate of baryta , they became virtually non-conductors to electricity of so low a tension as that of the voltaic battery , and the power of the latter over them was almost infinitely diminished .
552 .
The theory I have advanced accords in a most satisfactory manner with the fact of an element or substance finding its place of rest , or rather of evolution , sometimes at one pole and sometimes at the other .
Sulphur illustrates this effect very well .
When sulphuric acid is decomposed by the pile , sulphur is evolved at the negative pole ; but when sulphuret of silver is decomposed in a similar way ( 436 .
) , then the sulphur appears at the positive pole ; and if a hot platina pole be used so as to vaporize the sulphur evolved in the latter case , then the relation of that pole to the sulphur is exactly the same as the relation of the same pole to oxygen upon its immersion in water .
In both cases the element evolved is liberated at the pole , but not retained by it ; but by virtue of its elastic , uncoinbinable , and immiscible condition passes away into the surrounding medium .
The sulphur is evidently determined in these opposite directions by its opposite chemical relations to oxygen and silver ; and it is to such relations generally that I have referred all electro-chemnical phenomena .
Where they do not exist , no electro-chemical action can take place .
Where they are strongest , it is most powerful ; where they are reversed , the direction of transfer of the substance is reversed with them .
553 .
Water may be considered as one of those substances which can be made to pass to either pole .
When the poles are immersed in dilute sulphuric acid ( 527 .
) , acid passes towards the positive pole , and water towards the negative pole ; but when they are immersed in dilute alkali , the alkali passes towards the negative pole , and water towards the positive pole .
554 .
Nitrogen is another substance which is considered as determinable to either pole ; but in consequence of the numerous compounds which it forms , some of which pass to one pole and some to the other , I have not always found it easy to determine the true circumstances of its appearance .
A pure strong solution of ammonia is so bad a conductor of electr icity that it is scaricely more decomposable than pure water ; but if sulphate of ammonia be dissolved in it , then decomposition takes place very well , nitrogen almost pure , and in some cases quite , is evolved at the positive pole , and hydrogen at the negative pole .
555 .
On the other hand , if a strong solution of nitrate of ammonia be decomposed , oxygen appears at the positive pole , and hydrogen , with sometimes nitrogen , at the negative pole .
If fused nitrate of ammonia be employed , hydrogen appears at the negative pole , mingled with a little nitrogen .
Strong nitric acid yields plenty of oxygen at the positive pole , but no gas ( only nitrous acid , ) at the negative pole .
Weak nitric acid yields the oxygen and hydrogen of the water present , the acid apparently remaining unchanged .
Strong nitric acid , with nitrate of ammonia dissolved in it , yields a gas at the negative pole , of which the greater part is hydrogen , but apparently a little nitrogen is present .
I believe , that in some of these cases a little nitrogen appeared at the negative pole .
I suspect , however , that in all these , and in all former cases , the appearance of the nitrogen at the positive or negative pole is entirely a secondary effect , and not an immediate consequence of the decomposing power of the electric current .
556 .
A few observations on what are called the poles of the voltaic battery now seem necessary .
The poles are merely the surfaces or doors by which the electricity enters into or passes out of the decomposing substance .
They limit the extent of that substance in the course of the electric current , being its termination in that direction : hence the elements evolved pass so far and no further .
557 .
Metals make admirable poles , in consequence of their high conducting power , their immiscibility with the substances generally acted upon , their solid form , and the opportunity afforded of selecting some upon which ordinary substances exert no chemical action .
558 .
Water makes a pole of difficult application , except in a few cases ( 494 .
) , because of its small conducting power , its miscibility with most of the substances acted upon , and its general relation to them in respect to chemical affinity .
It consists of elements , which in their electrical and chemical relations are directly and powerfully opposed , yet combining to produce a body more neutral in its character than any other .
So that there are but few substances which do not come into relation , by chemical affinity , with water or one of its elements ; and therefore either the water or its elements are transferred and assist in transferring the infinite variety of bodies which , in association with it , can be placed in the course of the electric current .
Hence the reason why it so rarely happens that the evolved substances rest at the first surface of the water , and why it therefore does not exhibit the ordinary action of a pole .
559 .
Air , however , and some gases are free from the latter objection , and may be used as poles in many cases ( 461 , &amp;c. ) ; but , in consequence of the extremely low degree of conducting power belonging to them , they cannot be employed with the voltaic apparatus .
This limits their use ; for the voltaic apparatus is the only one as yet discovered which supplies sufficient quantity of electricity ( 371.376 .
) to effect electro-chemical decomposition with facility .
560 .
Where the poles are liable to the chemical action of the substances evolved , either simply in consequence of their natural relation to them , or of that relation aided by the influence of the current ( 518 .
) , then they suffer corrosion , and the parts dissolved are subject to transference , in the same manner as particles of the original decomposing body .
An immense series of phenomena of this kind might be quoted in support of the view I have taken of the cause of electro-chemical decomposition , and transfer and evolution of the elements .
Thus platina , as the positive and negative poles in a solution of sulphate of soda , has no affinity or attraction for the oxygen , hydrogen , acid , or alkali evolved , and refuses to combine with or retain them .
Zinc can com4 2 bine with the oxygen and acid ; at the positive pole it does combine , and immediately begins to travel as oxide towards the negative pole .
Charcoal , which cannot combine with the metals , if made the negative pole in a metallic solution , refuses to unite to the bodies which are ejected from the solution upon its surface ; but if made the positive pole in a dilute solution of sulphuric acid , it is capable of combining with the oxygen evolved there , and consequently unites with it , producing both carbonic acid and carbonic oxide in abundance .
561 .
A great advantage is frequently supplied , by the opportunity afforded amongst the metals of selecting a substance for the pole which shall or shall not be acted upon by the elements to be evolved .
The consequent use of platina is notorious .
In the decomposition of sulphuret of silver and other sulphurets , a positive silver pole is sulperior to a platina one , because in the former case the sulphur evolved there is combined with the silver , and , the decomposition of the original sulphuret rendered evident ; whereas in the latter case it is dissipated , and the assurance of its separation at the pole not easily obtained .
562 .
The effects which take place when a succession of conducting decomposable and undecomposable substances are placed in the electric circuit , as , for instance , of wires and solutions , or of air and solutions ( 465 .
469 .
) , are explained in the simplest possible manner by the view I have given .
In consequence of the reaction of the constituents of each portion of decomposable matter , affected as they are by the supervention of the electric current ( 524 .
) , portions of the proximate or ultimate elements proceed in the direction of the current as far as they find matter of a contrary kind capable of effecting their transfer , and being equally affected by them ; and where they cease to find such matter , they are evolved in their free state , i. e. upon the surfaces of metal or air bounding the extent of decomposable matter in the direction of the currents .
563 .
Having thus given my theory of the mode in which electro-chemical decomposition is effected , I will refrain for the present from entering upon the numerous general considerations which it suggests , wishing first to submit it to the test of publication and discussion .
'Royal Institution , June 1833 .

