I. " Note on Regelation .
" By JIICHAEL FARADAY , D.C.L. , F.R.S. &amp;c. illcecived March 13 , 1860 .
The philosophy of the phen-omenloin now understood by the word 'Regelation is exceedinigly interesting , not only because of its relation to glacial action under niatural circumstances , as shown by Tynidall nd( others , but also , and as I think especially , in its bearings upon mole ular action ; and this is shown ) , slot merely b , y the desire of different philosophers to assign the trLue physical principle of action , but also by the great differences betweeni the views which they have taken .
Two pieces of thawing ice , if put together , adhere and become one ; at a place where liquefaction was proceeding , congelation suddenly occurs .
The effect will take place in air , or in water , or in vacuo .
It will occur at every point where the two pieces of ice touch ; but not with ice below the freezing-point , i. e. with dry ice , or ice so cold as to be everywhere in the solid state .
Three different views are taken of the nature of this phellomenon .
Whenfirst observed in 1850 , I explained it by supposing that a particle of water , which could retain the liquid state whilst touching ice on-ly on one side , could not retaini the liquiid state if it were touched by ice on both sides ; but became solid , the general temperature remaining the same* .
Professor J. Thomson , who discovered that pressure lowered the freezing-point of watert , attributed the regelation to the fact that two pieces of ice could not be made to bear on each other without pressure ; and that the pressure , however slight , would cause fusion at the place where the particles touched , accompanied by relief of the pressure and resolidification of the water at the place of contact , in the manner that he has fully explained in a recent communication to the Royal SocietyT .
Professor Forbes assents to neither of these views ; but admitting Person 's idea of the gradual liquefaction of ice , and assuming that ice is essentially colder than ice-cold water , i. e. the water in contact with it , he con-cludes that two wet pieces of ice will have the water between them frozen at the place where they come inlto contact ? .
Though some might think that Professor Thomson , in his last communication , was trusting to changes of pressure and temperature so inappreciably small as to be not merely imperceptible , but also ineffectual , still he carried his coniditions with him into all the cases he referred to , even though some of his assuimed pressures were due to capillary attraction , or to the consequent pressure of the atmtaosphere , only .
It seemed to me that experiment might be so applied as to advance the investigation of this beautiful point in molecular philosophy to a further degree than bas yet been done ; even to the extent of exhausting the power of some of the principles assumed in one or more of the three views adopted , and so render ouir knowledge a little more defined and exact than it is at present .
In order to exclude all pressure of the particles of ice oln each other due to capillary attraction or the atmosphere , I prepared to experiment altogether under water ; and for this pturpose arranged a bath of that fluid at 32 ?
F. A pail , surrounded by dry flannel , was place(l in a box ; a glass jar , 10 inches deep and 7 inches wide , was placed on a low tripod in the pail ; broken ice was packed between the jar and the pail ; the jar was filled with ice-cold water to within an inch of the top ; a glass dish filled with ice was employed as a cover to it , and the whole enveloped with dry flannel .
In this way the central jar , with its contents , could be retained at the unchanging temperature of 320 F. for a week or more ; for a small piece of ice floating in it for that time was not entirely melted away .
All that was required to keep the arrangement at the fixed temperature , was to renew the )acking ice in the pail from time to time , and also that in the basin cover .
A very slow thawing process was going on in the jar the whole time , as was evident by the state of the indicating piece of ice there present .
Pieces of good Wenham-lake ice were prepared , some being blocks three inches square , and nearly an inch thick , others square prisms four or five inches long , : the blocks had each a hole made through them with a hot wire near one corner ; woollen thread passed through these holes formed loops , which being attached to pieces of lead , enabled me to sink the ice entirely under the surface of the ice-cold water .
Each piece was thus moored to a particular place , and , because of its buoyancy , assumed a position of stability .
The theads were about II inch long , so that a piece of ice , when depressed sideways and then left to itself , rose in the water as far as it could , and into its stable position , with considerable force .
When , also , a piece was turned round on its loop as a vertical axis , the torsion force tended to make it return in the reverse direction .
Two siynilar blocks of ice were placed in the water with their oppose( faces about twG inches apart ; thbeT couLld be moved into any desired position by the use of slender rods of wood , without any change of temperature in the water .
If brought near to each other and then left unrestrainied , they separated , returning to their first position with considerable force .
If brought into the slightest contact , regelation ensued , the blocks adlhered , and remained adherent notwithstanding the force tending to pull them apart .
They would continue thus , even for twenty-four hours or more , uintil they were purposelv separate(d , and would appear ( by many trials ) to have the adhesion increased at the points where they first touched , though at other parts of the contiguous surfaces a feeble thawing nnd dissecting action went on .
In this case , except for the first momenit and in a very minute degree , there was nlo pressure either from capillary action or any other cause .
On the contrary , a tensile force of considerable amount was tending all the time to separate the pieces of ice at their points of adhesion ; where still , I believe , the adhesion went on inereasing-a belief that will be fully confirmed hereafter .
Being desirous of knowing whiether anything like soft adhesion occurred , such as would allow slow change of position without separation during the action of the tenisile force , I made the following arrangements .
The blocks of ice being moored by the threads fastened to the lowest corners , stood in the water with one of the diagonals of the large surfaces vertical ; before the faces were brought into colntact , each block was rotated 450 about a horizontal axis , in opposite directions , so that when put together , they made a compound block , with horizontal upper edges , each half of which tended to be twisted upon , and torn from the other .
Yet by placing indicators in holes previously made in the edges of the ice , I could not find that there was the slightest motion of the blocks in relation to each other in the thirty-six hours during which the experimenit was continued .
This result , as far as it goes , is against the necessity of pressure to regelation , or the existence of any condition like that of softness or a shifting contact ; and yet I shall be able to show that there is either soft adhesion or an equivalent for it , and from that state draw still further cause ag , ainst the necessity of pressure to regelation .
Torsion force was then employed as any antagonist to regelation .
The ice-blocks , being separate , were adjusted in the water so as to be parallel to each other , and about 1-1 inch apart .
If m-lade to approach each other on onie side , by revolution in opposite directions on vertical axes , a piece of paper being between to prevent ice contact , the torsion force set up caused them to separate when left to themselves ; but if the paper were away and the ice pieces were brouight into contact , by however slight a force , they became one , forming a rigid piece of ice , though the strength was , of course , very small , the point of adhesion and solidification being simply the contact of two convex surfaces of small radius .
By giving a little motion to the pail , or by moving either piece of ice gently in the water with a slip of wood , it was easy to see that the two pieces were rigidly attached to each other ; and it was also found that , allowing time , there was no more tenidentcy to a changing shape here than in the case quoted above .
If now the slip of wood were introduced between the adhering pieces of ice , and applied so as to aid the torsioni force of one of the loops , i. e. to increase the separating force , but unequally as respects the two pieces , then the congelation at the point of contact would give way , and the pieces of ice would move in relation to each other .
Yet they would not separate ; the piece unrestrainied by the stick would not move off by the torsion of its own thread , though , if the stick were withdrawn , it would move backl into its first attached position , pulling the second piece with it ; and the two would resume their first associated form , though all the while the torsion of both loops was tending to make the pieces separate .
If when the wood was applied to change the mutual position of the two pieces of ice , withouLt separating them , it were retained for a second unidisturbed , then the two pieces of ice became fixed rigidly to each other in their iiew position , and maintained it when the wood was removed , but under a state of restraint ; and when sufficient force was applied , by a slight tap of the wood on the ice to break up the rigidity , the two pieces of ice woIld rearranige themselves under the torsion force of their respective threads , yet remain united ; and , assunmingia new position , would , in a second or less , again become rigid , and remain iniflexibly conjoined as before .
By maniaging the continuous rmotion of onie piece of ice , it could be kept associated with the other by a flexible point of attachment for any length of time , could be placed in varioIIs angUlar pOsitiOn to it , could be miiade ( by retaining it quiescent for a moment ) to assume and hold permanently any of these positions when the external force was removed , could be changed from that position into a new one , and , within certain limits , could be made to possess at pleasure , and for any length of time , either a flexible or a rigid attachment to its associated block of ice .
So , regelation includes a flexible adhesion of the particles of ice , and also a rigid adhesion .
The transition between these two states takes place when there is no external force like pressure tending to bring the particles of ice together , but , on the contrary , a force of torsion is tending to separate them ; and , if respect be had to the mere point of contact on the two rounded surfaces where the flexible adhesion is exercised , the force which tends to separate them may be esteemed very great .
The act of regelation cannot be considered as complete until the junction has become rigid ; and therefore I think that the necessity of pressure for it is altogether excluded .
No external pressure can remain ( under the circumstances ) after the first rigid contact is broken .
All the forces which remain tend to separate the pieces of ice ; yet the first flexible adlhesions and all the stuecessive rigid adhesions which are made to occuir , are as much effects of regelation as those which occur under the greatest pressure .
The phenomenon of flexible adhesion under tension looks very much like sticking and tenacity ; and I think it probable that Professor Forbes will see in it evidence of the truth of his view .
I cannot , however , consider the fact as bearing such an initerpretation ; because I think it impossible to keep a mixture of snow and water for hours and days together without the temperature of the mixed mass becoming uniform ; which uniformity would be fatal to the explanationii My idea of the flexible and rigid adhesion is this : Two convex surfaces of ice come together ; the particles of water nearest to the place of contact , a'nd therefore within the efficient sphere of action of those particles of ice which are on both sides of them , solidify ; if the conidition of things be left for a moment , that the heat evolved by the solidification may be conducted away and dispersed , more particles will solidify , and ultimately enough to form a fixed and rigid junction , which will remain until a force sufficiently great to break through it is applied .
But if the directioni of the force resorted to can be relieved by any binge-like motioni at the point of contact , then I think that the union .
is broken nip among the particles on the opening side of the angle , whilst the partieles on the closing side come within the effectual regelation distance ; regelation ensues there and the adhesion is maintained , though in an apparently flexible state .
The flexibility appears to me to be due to a series of ruLptures on one side of the centre of contact , and of adhesion on the other , the regelation , which is dependent on the vicinity of the ice surfaces , being transferred as the place of efficient vicinity is changed .
That the substance we are considering is as brittle as ice , does not make any difficulty to me in respect of the flexible adhesion ; for if we suppose that the point of contact exists only at one particle , still the angular motion at that point must bring a second particle into contact ( to suffer reg , elation ) before separation could occur at the first ; or if , as seems proved by the suipervention of the rigid adhesion upon the flexible state , maniy particles are concerned at once , it is not possible that all these should be broken through by a force applied on one side of the place of adhesion , before particles on the opposite side should have the opportunity of regelation , and so of continuing the adhesion .
It is not necessary for the observation of these phenomena that a carefully-arranged water-vessel should be employed .
The difference between the flexible and rigid adhesion may be examined very well in air .
For this purpose , two of the bars of ice before spokenl of , may be hung up horizontally by threads , which may be adjusted to give by torsion any separating force desired ; and when the ends of these bars are broalght together , the adhesion of the ice , and the ability of placing these bars at any angle , and causing them to preserve that angle by the rigid adhesion due to regelationi , will be rendered evident ; and though the flexible adhesion of the ice cannot in this way be examined alone , because of the capillary attraction due to the film of water on the ice , yet that is easily obviated by plunging the pieces into a dish of water at common temperatuLres , so that they are entirely under the surface , and repeating the observations there .
All the important points regarding the flexible and rigid junction of ice due to regelation , can in this way be readily investigated .
It will be understood that , in observing the flexible and rigid state of uniion , convex surfaces of contact are necessary , so that the contact may be only at one point .
If there be several places of contact , apparent rigidity is given to the united mass , though each of the places of contact might be in a flexible and , so to say , adhesive condition .
It is not at all difficult to arrange a convex surface so that , bearing at two places only on the sides of a depression , it should form a flexible joint in one direction , and a rigid attachment in a direction transverse to the former .
It might seem at first sight as if the flexible adhesion of the ice gave us a point to start from in the further investigation of the principle of pressure .
If the application of pressure causes ice to freeze together , the application of tension might be expected to produce the contrary effect , and so cause liquidity and separation at the flexible joint .
This , however , does not necessarily follow ; nor do I intend to consider what might be supposed to take )lace whilst theoretically corntemplating that case .
I think the changes of temperature and pressure are too infinitesimnal to go for anything ; and in illustration of this , will describe the following experiment .
Wool is known to adhere to ice in the maniner , as I believe , of regelation .
Some woollen thread was boiled in distilled water , so as thoroughly to wet it .
Some clean ice was brokein up small and mixed with water , so as to produce a soft mass , and , being put into a glass jar clothed in flannel that it might keep for some hours , had a linear depression made in the surface , so as to form a little ice-ditch filled with water ; in this depression some filaments of the wetted wool were placed , which , sinking to the bottom , rested on the ice only with the weight which they would have being immersed in water ; yet in the course of two hours these filaments were frozen to the ice .
In another case , a small loose ball of the same boiled wool , about half an inch in diameter , was put on to a clean piece of ice ; that into a glass basin ; and the whole wrapped up in flannel and left for twelve hours .
At the end of that time it was found that thawing had been going on , and that the wool had melted a hole in the ice , by the heat condLucted through it to the ice from the air .
The hole was filled with the water and wool , but at the bottom some fibres of the wool were frozen to the ice .
Is this remarkable property peculiar to water , or is it general to atll bodies ?
In respect of water it certainly seems to offer us a glimpse into the joinlt physical action of many particles , and into the nature of cohesion in that body when it is changing between the solid and liquiid state .
I made some experiments on this point .
Bismuith was melted and kept at a temperature at which both solid and liquid metal could be present ; then rods of bismuth were introduced , but when they had acquired the temperature of the mixed mass , no adhesion could be observed between them .
By stirring the metal with wood , it was easy to break up the solid part into small crystalline granules ; but when these were pressed together by wood under the surface , there was not the slightest tendency to cohere , as hail or snow would cohere in water .
The same negative result was obtained with the metals tin and lead .
Melted nitre appeared at times to show traces of the power ; but , on the whole , I incline to think the ifects observed resulted from the circumstanice that the solid rods experimented with had not acquired throughout the fusing temperature .
Nitre is a body which , like water , expanids in solidifving ; and it may possess a certain degree of this peculiar power .
Glacial acetic acid is not merely without regelating force , but actually presents a contrast to it .
A bottle containing five or six ounces , which had remainedI liquiid for many months , was at such a temperature that being stirred briskly with a glass rod crystals began to form in it ; these went on increasing in size and quantity for eight or ten hoiirs .
Yet all that time there was not the slightest trace of adhesioi amongst th.em , even when they were pressed together ; and as they came to the surfi-ce , the liquid portion tended to withdraw froma the faces of the crysta ls ; as if there were a disinclination of the liquid and solid parts to adhere together .
Many salts were tiied ( without much or any expectation ) , -crystals of them bein , g brought to bear against each other by torsionl force , in their saturated solutions at common tem-peratures .
In this way the following bodies were experimeynted with:-Nitrates of lead , potassa , soda ; sulphates of soda , magnesia , copper , Zinc ; alum ; borax ; chloride of am-monium ; ferro-prussiate of potassa ; carbonlate of soda ; acetate of lead ; and tartrate of potassa and soda ; but the results with all were negative .
My present conclusion therefore is that the property is special for water ; and that the view I have takeni of its physical cause does not appear to be less likely niow than at the beginning of this short investigation , and therefore has not sunk in valuie among the three e.plasi ations gi ven .
Dr. Tyndall added to one of his papers* , a note of mine " On ice of irregular fiusibility " indicating a cause for the difference observed in this respect in different parts of the same piece of ice .
The view there taken was strongly confirmed by the effects which occurred in the jar of water at constant temperature described in the beginrning of the preceding pages , where , though a thawing process was set up , it was so slow as not to dissolve a cubic inch of ice in six or seven days .
The blocks retained entirely under water for several days , became so dissected at the surfaces as to develope the mechanical composition of the masses , and to show that they were composed of parallel layers about the tenth of an inch thick , of greater and lesser fusibility , which layers appear , from other modes of examination , to have been horizontal in the ice whilst in the act of formation .
They had no relation to the position of the blocks in the water of my experiments , or to the direction of gravity , but had a fixed position in relation to each piece of ice .
ADD NDUMI , received April 28 .
The following method of examining the regelation phenomena above described may be acceptable .
Take a rather large dish of water at commron temperatures .
Prepare some flat cakes or bars of ice , from half an inch to an inch thick ; render the edges round , and the upper surface of each piece convex , by holding it against the inside of a warm sauicepan cover , or in any other way .
When two of these pieces are put into the water they will float , having perfect freedom of motioi , and yet oiily the central part of the upper surface will be above the fluid ; when , therefore , the pieces touch at their edges , the width of the water-suirface above the place of contact may be two , three , or four inches , and thus the effect of capillary action be entirely removed .
By placing a plate of clean dry wa.x or spermaceti upon the top of a plate of ice , the latter may be entirely submerged , and the tendency to approximation from capillary action converted into a force of separation .
When two or more of such floating pieces of ice are brought together by contact at some point under the water , they adhere ; first with an apparently flexible , and then with a rigid adhesion .
When five or six pieces are grouped in a contorted shape , as an S , and one cnid piece be moved carefully , all will move with it rigidly ; or , if the force be eniough to break through the joinit , the riupture will be with a crackling noise , but the pieces will still adhere , and in an instant become rigid again .
As the adhesion is only by points , the force applied should not be either too powerful or in the mainner of a blow .
I find a piece of paper , a small feather , or a canmel-hair brush applied under the water very convenient for the purpose .
When the point of a floating , wedge-shaped piece of ice is brought under water against the corner or side of another floating piece , it sticks to it like a leech ; if , after a moment , a paper edge be brought down upon the place , a very sensible resistance to the rupture at that place is felt .
If the ice be replaced by like rounded pieces of wood or glass , touching unider water , nothing of this kind occurs , nor any signs of an effect that could by possibility be referred to capillary actionl ; and finally , if two floating pieces of ice have separating forces attached to them , as by threads connecting them and two light pen(dulurns , pulled more or less in opposite directions , then it will be seen with what power the ice is held together at the place of regelation , when the contact there is either in the flexible or rigid condition , by the velocity and force with which the two pieces will separate when the adhesion is properly and enitirely overcome .

