THE BAKERIAN LECTURE was delivered by MICHAEL FARADAY , Esq. , F.R.S. , " On the Relations of Gold and other Metals to Light .
" The Lecturer gave an exposition , illustrated by experiments , of the substance of a paper presented by him to the Society under the above title .
The following is an abstract : The author of this paper hopes that the undulatory theory of light , when more fully and perfectly developed , may aid in comparing local actions with those which take place at a distance , and even help towards the comprehension of the physical means by which the latter are carried on ; and with that view he endeavoured , experimentally , to subject a ray of light to the action of particles , so small in size as to have an immediate and near relation , not only to the undulations of light , but even to the far smaller motions of the parts of the ether , which are supposed to produce , by their joint and successive action , the light-wave .
His hope was , that by choosing particles of a fitting substance , experimental results might be obtained which , in the hands of the mathematical philosopher , might aid in perfecting the theory ; and for this purpose gold was selected , because of its high optical qualities , shown in its comparative opacity , whilst possessing a real transparency ; its high yellow reflexion and its true green transmission ; its known action on light in very minute quantity ; its capability of extreme division ; its great gravitating force , which could be called upon for aid when the metal was in a state of extreme division ; its elementary character ; the integrity of its metallic state ; the facilities of testing its presence and condition ; and , finally , because known phenomena seemed already to indicate differences of action on light consequent upon its division .
The first state of division or attenuation considered , was that conferred on gold by beating into leaves .
These , with their dimensions and general characters , are well known .
Being taken up on glass damped by breathing or moistening , and then water introduced between the glass and the gold as a cushion , the gold can be perfectly stretched , so that when dry it is fit for optical examination ; or if a diluted solution of cyanide of potassium be in like manner introduced beneath the gold , it can be more or less attenuated by solution , and then washed and dried .
If gold-leaf thus extended and attached , either to glass , or plates of rock-crystal , or mica , be heated , it gradually loses its reflective power and its green colour , and becomes translucent .
This change takes place far below the fusing-point of gold , and at a temperature as low as the boiling- ?
;point of oil if continued for several hours .
When the heat is considerable , the gold-leaf suffers retraction of its parts , and becomes perforated by many fine holes , often symmetric in their form and dimension ; but when the heat applied is the lowest competent to produce the change , it does not seem certain that the effect is due to such retraction ; a good microscopic examination of this point is required .
When pressure is applied to such decoloured gold by a convex piece of rock-crystal of short radius ( as half an inch or less ) , the green colour of the transmitted ray reappears .
This production of the green colour by pressure can often be referred to in different states of gold , as a proof , amongst others , that the metal is in the metallic condition .
Silver-leaf undergoes a like change by heat , at even a lower temperature .
Division by the Leyden Deflagration.-When a gold wire is deflagrated near the surface of glass plates by a strong electric discharge , it is dissipated in minute particles , which are deposited on the glass .
These are seen by the microscope to be of different sizes ; but by far the greater part are so minute as not to be distinguishable separately .
The general film is of different colours by transmitted light , being grey , violet , or green ; and often on the central or nearest part of the discharge , where the heat has been active , is of a fine ruby colour .
All these particles act with acid and chemical reagents as gold acts ; and there is no reason to believe they are anything other than metallic gold .
They appear with precisely the same colours and characters , whether the deflagrations are made in common air , in oxygen , or in hydrogen ; and whether the deposits are formed on glass , rock-crystal , topaz , or mica .
When heated by any ordinary means , the green and grey parts change to a ruby or ruby-amethystine colour , and that whether surrounded by air , or vapour of alcohol or ether .
Even after heating , they adhere only as a dust to the plates , except when the temperature applied to those on glass has been very high .
Agate pressure confers the green character on the heated deposits , and also , in frequent cases , upon that which has not been heated .
All things considered , there can be no reason to doubt that the deposits thus made to vary in the colour of the transmitted light , consist of pure metallic gold .
Thin films of Gold.-If a very weak solution of chloride of gold , free from excess of acid , and containing about H1 grain of metal to 2 or 3 pints of water , be placed in a very clean glass or glazed vessel , in a quiet place , and then two or three small particles of phosphorus be laid floating on the surface , and the whole covered over and left for twelve or more hours , the gold will be reduced , covering the whole of the surface with a film , thicker near the phosphorus than at other parts .
This film may be raised from the fluid by plates of glass , and washed and dried on the plates , and is then ready for examination .
The thinner parts of such a film are scarcely visible , either by reflected or transmitted light ; the transition to thicker parts is gradual , the thickest being opaque , and their reflexion that of dense gold .
The colour by transmitted light varies , being grey , green , or dull violet .
The films are porous , and act as pure gold , resisting all the agents which metallic gold resists .
When heated , the transmitted colour changes towards amethyst and ruby ; and then the effect of pressure in producing a green colour is in many cases very remarkable , --even a touch with a card or the finger being able to cause the change .
Gold fluids.--Whilst the particles of phosphorus are producing a film on the surface , it frequently happens that streams of a red colour descend from them through the fluid ; and if the phosphorus be submerged , and left for twenty-four or forty-eight hours , this red product is easily and abundantly obtained .
If the gold solution be placed in a very clean bottle , and then a few drops of a solution of phosphorus in ether be added , and the whole agitated from time to time , the ruby fluid is obtained in a shorter period .
This fluid is apt to change in colour , becoming amethystine , violet , purple , and finally blue ; impurities of certain kinds in very small quantities cause this change .
It is hardly possible to clean a vessel so well that the first portion put into it does not alter .
Most saline bodies produce the change ; a trace of common salt readily makes it manifest .
That all these fluids are coloured by diffused particles is shown by the circumstance , that on being left for a shorter or longer time , the particles sink , forming a coloured stratum of deposit ; many months , however , are required for even the partial separation of the finer ruby particles .
When a light is looked at through the fluid , the latter appears transparent ; but when the eye is on the illuminated side , then the fluid is seen opalescent .
If a cone of sun-rays be thrown by a lens into the fluid , the illumination of the particles within the cone shows their presence as undissolved bodies .
It is believed that all the particles being metallic gold , the ruby are in the finest state of division , the blue in a more aggregated condition .
Though the ruby particles , whilst freely diffused , are easily changed in colour , and as it is supposed by aggregation , still they may in some degree be separated by a filter ; for on passing the fluid several times through a paper filter , the latter associates much of the rubifying substance with itself , and becomes of a rose colour ; it may then be well washed and dried , and contains the ruby particles located , as it is believed , and prevented by their attachment to the paper-fibres from undergoing mutual aggregation .
In this state their character is not altered from ruby to blue by salt or acids ; they resist those chemical agents which are resisted by gold , but are dissolved by chlorine , cyanides and the other substances capable of acting on gold .
Heated either in oxygen , hydrogen , or air , no change of tint or quality is induced at such temperatures as the paper can bear ; or , as far as can be judged , at any higher temperature .
A ruby glass , coloured by gold , is well known .
This is considered by the author as analogous to the ruby fluid just spoken of , being a diffusion of gold particles through vitreous matter .
The ruby fluid by association with jelly is rendered much more permanent than before ; and then it may by a little warmth be had in the fluid state , or by cooling as a tremulous jelly , or by desiccation as a hard ruby solid , presenting all the transitions between the gold fluid and the ruby glass .
By soaking the dried jelly and then warming it with water , these transitions may be passed through in the reverse direction , and so on , any number of times .
The relations of gold ( and other metals ) to polarized light are of the following nature .
A leaf of gold inclined at a certain angle across a ray of polarized light ( the inclination not being in the plane of polarization or at right angles to it ) , affects it as a thin plate of any uncrystallized transparent substance would do , i. e. the light appears in the analyser , and the plane of polarization is rotated ; or if a leaf of gold be held in an inclined position across a ray of unpolarized light , the beam is polarized as it would have been in passing through a like inclined plate of uncrystallized transparent matter .
The gold greened by heating or pressure , when thus examined , does not appear to have acquired any particular tension or structure .
Sulphide of carbon and crown-glass are optically so near each other , that a plate of the latter immersed in the former is neutralized ; and though placed in an inclined position to a ray of light , either polarized or not , does not then affect it ; but gold ( and all metals ) is still far above either of these .
Hence the gold films obtained by phosphorus , when attached to glass , could be examined , and were found to have the optical properties of leaf-gold ; the effect having no reference to the thickness of the film , but being most perfect in the thinner films because they were in a more regular and perfect condition .
It should be remembered that these films are not continuous layers like coats of varnish or fluid , but easily pervious to vapours .
In like manner the deposits of gold ( and other metals ) obtained by electric deflagrations , were examined and found to have the same marked qualities in a high degree ; places where the film was scarcely visible on the glass , instantly showing the presence of the gold by their action on the polarized ray .
In the same manner the very thin and almost invisible films , deposited occasionally on the sides of the vessels containing the gold fluids , showed themselves as gold .
The thinnest layer of the fluid itself , however rich in particles , held between two plates of glass , acted no otherwise than a layer of water .
It appears by the deflagrations that the particles of gold must be deposited in a plane , and then , though discontinuous , they act in the manner of continuous films of ordinary uncrystallized transparent bodies .
As to the quantity of gold in the different films or solutions , it can at present only be said that it is very small .
Suppose that a leaf of gold , which weighs about 0'2 of a grain , and will cover a base of nearly 10 square inches , were diffused through a column having that base , and 2'7 inches in height , it would give a ruby fluid equal in depth of tint to a good red rose ; the volume of the gold present being about the 1th part of the volume of the fluid ; 500,000 another result gave 0'01 of a grain of gold in a cubic inch of fluid .
These fine diffused particles have not as yet been distinguished by any microscopic power applied to them .

