The reading of a paper , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity/ ' Eleventh Series , by Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution , &amp; c , was resumed and concluded .
The object of this paper is to establish two general principles re ?
lating to the theory of electricity , which appear to be of great importance ; first , that induction is in all cases the result of the actions of contiguous particles ; and secondly , that different insulators have different inductive capacities .
The class of phenomenon usually arranged under the head of in ?
duction are reducible to a general fact , the existence of which we may recognise in all electrical phenomenon whatsoever ; and they involve the operation of a principle having all the characters of a first , essen ?
tial and fundamental law .
The discovery which he had already made of the law by which electrolytes refuse to yield their elements to a current when in the solid state , though they give them forth freely when liquid , suggested to the author the extension of analogous explanations with regard to inductive action , and the possible reduction of many dissimilar phenomenon to one single comprehensive law , As the whole effect upon the electrolyte appeared to be an action of the particles when thrown into a peculiar polarized state , he was led to suspect that common induction itself is in all cases an action of contiguous particles , and that electrical action at a distance , which is what is meant by the term induction , never occurs except through the intermediate agency of intervening matter .
He considered that a test of the correctness of his views might be obtained by tracing the course of inductive action ; for if it were found to be exerted in curved lines it would naturally indicate the action of contiguous particles , and would scarcely be compatible with action at a distance .
Moreover , if induction be an action of contiguous particles , and likewise the first step in electrolyzation , there seemed reason to expect some particular relation of this action to the different kinds of matter through which it is exerted ; that is , something equivalent to a specific electric induction for different bodies ; and the existence of such specific powers would be an irrefragable proof of the dependence of induction on the intervening particles .
The failure of all attempts to produce an absolute charge of electricity of one species alone , in ?
dependent of the other , first suggested to the author the notion that induction is the result of actions among the individual and con ?
tiguous particles of matter , having both forces developed to an extent exactly equal in each particle .
The author describes various experiments , with the view of show ?
ing that no case ever occurs in which an absolute charge of one spe ?
cies of electricity can be given .
His first experiments wrere conducted on a very large scale : an insulated cube , twelve feet in the side , consisting of a wooden frame , with wire net-work , every part of which was brought into good metallic contact by bands of tin foil , had a glass tube , containing a wire in connexion with a large electrical machine , passed through its side , so that about four feet of the tube entered within the cube and two feet remained without ; but it was found impossible in any way to charge the air within this apparatus with the least portion of either electricity .
For investigating the question whether induction is an action of contiguous particles , the author employed , as an electrometer , the torsion balance of Coulomb with certain alterations and additions ; and for deciding that of specific inductive capacity , a new apparatus , constructed for that express purpose .
This apparatus consistcd of two hollow brass spheres , of very unequal diameters , the smaller placed within the larger , and concentric with it ; the interval between the two being the space through which the induction was to he effected .
The apparatus had a tube in the lower part , furnished with a stop-cock , by means of which it might be connected with an air-pump or filled with any required gas .
In place of the lower hemispherical shell of air , occupying the interval between the two spheres , any solid dielectric , of the same form , such as shell-lac , glass , or sulphur , might be suhstituted .
Two of these instruments , precisely similar in every respect , were constructed , and the author asccrtnincd that the inductive power was the same in both , by alternately charging each and dividing the charge with the other , and finding that , in all cases , the charge remaining in the one , and also that received by the other , was very nearly half the original charge .
The experiments on which the author principally relies in support of the correctness of his views relative to induction being exerted in curved lines , are the following : a brass ball being laid on the top of an excited cylinder of shell-lac placed vertically , the charge which a carrier ball received when brought to different points near to the brass sphere was measured by means of the electrometer ; and it was inferred , from the character of the electricity , that the charge was one by induction , and from its measure , that it proceeded in curved lines .
By substituting for the brass sphere a disc of metal above the shell-lac cylinder , it was found that when the carrier ball was brought near to the middle of the disc no charge was communicated , although a sensible one was obtained at the edge of the disc , and also at a point above its centre , farther removed from the excited cylinder .
Corresponding and very striking results were obtained when a brass hemisphere was placed on the top of the cylinder of lac .
The charge communicated at the centre of the hemisphere was only one-third of that obtained at the edge of its periphery ; but by taking it at a point at some height above the centre , and consequently much farther removed from the inducing cause , the charge was nearly equal to that of the periphery .
Here , the author remarks , the in ?
duction fairly turned a corner , exhibiting both the curved lines or courses of its action , when disturbed from their rectilineal form by the shape , position and condition of the metallic hemisphere ; and also a lateral tension , so to speak , of these lines on one another ; all depending on induction being an action of the contiguous particles of the dielectric thrown into a state of polarity and tension , and mu ?
tually related by their forces in aU directions .
In the foregoing experiments the dielectric was air ; but they were afterwards varied by substituting a fluid , as oil of turpentine , and likewise a few solid dielectrics , namely , shell-lac , sulphur , carbonate and borate of lead , flint-glass , and spermaceti , and with these , corresponding results were obtained .
These results , the author considers , cannot but be admitted as arguments against the received theory of induction , and in favour of that which he has put forth .
In the course of these experimental researches , some effects due to conduction , which had not been anticipated , and which were si ?
milar to the residual charge in the Leyden jar , had been obtained with such bodies as glass , lac , sulphur , &amp;c. If the inductive apparatus , fitted with a hemispherical cup of shell-lac , after having re ?
mained charged for fifteen or twenty minutes , was suddenly and perfectly discharged , and then left to itself , it would gradually recover a very sensible charge ; the electricity which thus returned from an apparently latent to a sensible state being always of the same kind as that given by the charge .
This return charge is attributed to an actual penetration , by conduction , of the charge to some distance within the dielectric at each of its two surfaces , and several experiments are adduced in support of this view .
With shell-lac and spermaceti the return charge was considerable ; with glass and sulphur it was much less ; but with air , no decided effect of the kind could be obtained .
As this was an effect which might interfere with the results , in the method the author adopted for deciding the question of specific inductive capacity , and as time was requisite for this penetration of the charge , its influence on these results was guarded against by allowing , between the successive operations , as little time as possible for this peculiar action to arise .
The author thus states the question of specific inductive capacity which he had proposed to investigate : ?
Suppose A an electrified plate of metal suspended in the air , and B and C two exactly similar plates , placed parallel to " and on each side of A , at equal distances , and uninsulated ; A will then induce equally towards B and C. If in this position of the plates , some other dielectric than air , as shelllac , be introduced between A and C , will the induction between them remain the same ; or will the relation of C and B to A be altered by the difference of the dielectrics interposed between them ?
The experiment of Coulomb , from which it appeared that a wire surrounded by shell-lac took exactly the same quantity of electricity from a charged body , as the same body took in air , seemed to the author to be no proof of the truth of the assumption , that , under such variation of the circumstances as he had supposed , no change would occur .
Entertaining these doubts as to the conclusions deducible from Coulomb 's result , he had the apparatus previously described constructed , as being well adapted for this investigation .
After rejecting glass , resin , wax , naphtha , oil of turpentine , and other substances , as unfit for the purpose in view , he chose shell-lac as the substance best calculated to serve as an experimental test of the question .
For the purpose of comparing the inductive capacities of shell-lac and air , a hemispherical cup of shell-lac was introduced into the lower hemisphere of one of the inductive apparatus , so as to nearly fill the lower half of the space between the two spheres ; and their charges were divided in the manner already described ; each apparatus being used in turn to receive the first charge , before its division with the other .
As the two instruments were known to have equal inductive powers when air was contained in both , any deficiencies resulting from the introduction of the shell-lac would show a peculiar action in it , and , if unequivocally referable to a specific inductive influence , would establish the point in question .
The air apparatus being charged , and its disposable charge being 290 ?
, this charge was divided between the two .
After the division the charge in the lac apparatus was 113 ?
, and in the air apparatus 114 ? .
From this it appears , that whilst by the division the induction through the air lost 176 ?
, that through lac gained only 113 ? .
Assuming that this difference depends entirely on the greater facility possessed by shell-lac of allowing or causing inductive action through its substance than that possessed by air , then the capacity for electric induction would be inversely as the respective loss and gain ; and assuming the capacity of the air apparatus as unity , that of the shell176 lac apparatus would be j-r* or 1*55 .
When the shell-lac apparatus was first charged , and then the charge divided with the air apparatus , it appeared that the lac apparatus , in communicating a charge of 118 ?
, only lost a charge of 86 ? .
This result gives 1*37 as the capacity of the lac apparatus .
Both these results , the author considers , require a correction ; the former being in excess , the latter in defect .
Applying this cor ?
rection , they become 1*50 and 1*47 .
From a mean of these and several similar experiments , it is inferred that the inductive capacity of the apparatus having the hemisphere of lac is to that with air as 1*50 to 1 .
As the lac only occupied one half of the apparatus containing it , the other half being filled with air , it would follow from the foregoing result , that the inductive capacity of shell-lac is to that of air as 2 tol .
From all these experiments and from the constancy of their results the author deems the conclusion irresistible , that shell-lac does ex ?
hibit a case of specific inductive capacity .
Similar experiments with flint-glass gaveits capacity 1*76 times that of air .
Using in like manner a hemisphere of sulphur , it appeared that the inductive capacity of that substance was rather above 2*24 times that of air , and the author considers this result with sulphur as one of the most unexceptionable .
With liquids , as oil of turpentine and naphtha , although the results are not inconsistent with the belief , that these liquids have a greater specific inductive capacity than air , yet the author does not consider the proofs as perfectly conclusive .
A most interesting class of substances , in relation to specific in ?
ductive capacity , the gases or aeriform bodies , next came under the author 's review .
With atmospheric air , and likewise with pure oxygen , change of density was found to occasion no change in the inductive capacity .
Nor was any change produced , either by an increase of temperature or by a variation in the hygrometric state .
The details are then given of a very elaborate series of experiments with atmospheric air , oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , muriatic acid , carbonic acid , sulphurous acid , sulphuretted hydrogen , and other gases , undertaken with the view of comparing them one with another under a great variety of modifications .
Notwithstanding the striking contrasts of all kinds which these gases present , of property , of density , whether simple or compound , anious or catious , of high or low pressure , hot or cold , not the least difFerence in their capacity to favour or admit electrical induction through them could be per ?
ceived .
Considering the point established , that in all these gases ?
induction takes place by an action of contiguous particles , this is the more important , and adds one to the many striking relations which hold among bodies having the gaseous form .
4'2 In conclusion , the author remarks , that induction appears to be essentially an action of contiguous particles , through the intermediation of which the electric force originating or appearing at a certain place , is propagated to or sustained at a distance , appearing there as a force of the same kind and exactly equal in amount , but oppo ?
site in its direction and tendencies .
Induction requires no sensible thickness in the conductors which may be used to limit its extent , for an uninsulated leaf of gold may be made very highly positive on one surface , and as highly negative on the other , without the least interference of the two states , as long as the induction continues .
But with regard to dielectrics , or insulating media , the results are very different ; for their thickness has an immediate and important influence on the degree of induction .
As to their quality , though all gases and vapours are alike , whatever be their state , amongst solid bodies , and between them and gases , there are differences which prove the existence of specific inductive capacities .
The author also refers to a transverse force with which the direct inductive force is accompanied .
The experimental proof of the existence of such a force , in all cases of induction , is , from its bearing on the phamomena of electro-magnetism and magneto-electricity , of the highest importance ; and we cannot but look forward with the greatest interest to the promised communication in which these and other phamomena relating to this subject will be reviewed .

