January 8 , 1846 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
The following paper was read : " Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Twentieth Series .
Section 26th .
" On New Magnetic Actions ; and on the Magnetic Condition of all Matter .
" The following is the order in which the several divisions of the subject treated of in this section of the author 's researches in electricity succeed one another:-1 .
Apparatus required .
2 .
Action of magnets on heavy glass .
3 .
Action of magnets on other substances acting magnetically on light 4 .
Action of magnets on the metals generally .
5 .
Action of magnets on the magnetic metals and their compounds .
6 .
Action of magnets on air and gases .
7 .
General considerations .
In giving an account of the contents of this paper , any attempt to follow the track of the author in the precise order in which he relates the consecutive steps of his progress in this new path of discovery , would fail of accomplishing its object ; for , by adhering to such a course , it would scarcely be possible to comprise within the requisite limits of an abstract the substance of a memoir extending , as the present one does , to so great a length , and of which .
so large a portion is occupied with minute and circumstantial details of experiments ; or to succeed in conveying any clear and distinct idea of the extraordinary law of nature brought to light by the author , and of the important conclusions which he has deduced .
One of the simplest forms of experiment in which the operation of this newly-discovered law of magnetic action is manifested , is the following:-A bar of glass , composed of silicated borate of lead , two inches in length , and half an inch in width and in thickness , is suspended at its centre by a long thread , formed of several fibres of silk cocoon , so as to turn freely , by the slightest force , in a horizontal plane , and is secured from the agitation of currents of air by being enclosed in a glass jar .
The two poles of a powerful electromagnet are placed one on each side of the glass bar , so that the centre of the bar shall be in the line connecting the poles , which is the line of magnetic force .
If , previous to the establishment of the magnetic action , the position of the bar be such that its axis is inclined at half a right angle to that line , then , on completing the circuit of the battery so as to bring the magnetic power into operation , the bar will turn so as to take a position at right angles to the same line ; and , if disturbed , will return to that position .
A bar of bismuth , substituted for the glass bar , exhibits the same phenomenon , but in a still more marked manner .
It is well known that a bar of iron , placed in the same circumstances , takes a position coincident with the direction of the magnetic forces ; and therefore at right angles with the position taken by the bar of bismuth subjected to the same influence .
These two directions are termed by the author axial and equatorial ; the former being that taken by the iron , the latter that taken by the bismuth .
Thus it appears that different bodies are acted upon by the magnetic forces in two different and opposite modes ; and they may accordingly be arranged in two classes ; the one , of which iron is the type , constituting those usually denominated magnetics ; the other , of which bismuth may be taken as the type , obeying a contrary law , and therefore coming under the generic appellation of diamagnetics , The author has examined a vast variety of substances , both simple and compound , and in a solid , liquid , or gaseous form , with a view to ascertain their respective places and relative order with reference to this classification .
The number of simple bodies which belong to the class of magnetics is extremely limited , consisting only of iron , which possesses the magnetic property in an eminent degree , nickel , cobalt , manganese , chromium , cerium , titanium , palladium , platinum and osmium .
All other bodies , when either solid or liquid , are diamagnetic ; that is , obey the same law , with regard to magnetic action , as bismuth , but with various degrees of intensity : arsenic is one of those that give the feeblest indications of possessing this property .
The following exhibit it in increasing degrees , according to the order in which they are here enumerated ; namely , ether , alcohol , gold , water , mercury , flint glass , tin , lead , zinc , antimony , phosphorus , bismuth .
On the other hand , no gaseous body of any kind , or in any state of rarefaction or condensation , affords the slightest trace of being affected by magnetic forces .
Gases may therefore be considered as occupying the neutral point in the magnetic scale , intermediate between magnetic and diamagnetio bodies , The magnetic properties of compound bodies depend on those of their elements ; and the bodies are rendered either magnetic or diamagnetic according to the predominance of one or other of these conditions among their constituent parts .
Thus iron is found to retain its magnetic power when it has entered into combination with other bodies of the diamagnetic class ; the two forces acting in op , position to one another , and the resulting effect being only that due to the difference in their power .
Hence the oxides and the salts of iron are still in a certain degree magnetic , and the latter even when they are held in solution by water ; but the water may be present in such a proportion as that neither shall prevail ; and the solution , as far as respects its magnetic properties , will then be exactly neutralized .
These saline solutions , prepared of various degrees of strength , also afford a convenient method of comparing the relative degrees of force , both magnetic and diamagnetic , of different bodies , whether solid or fluid , but more especially the latter , as they admit of the body under examination being suspended in another liquid , when its position of equilibrium will indicate which of the two substances has the strongest magnetic power .
In one respect , indeed , the diamagnetic action presents a remarkable contrast with the magnetic ; and the difference is not merely one of degree , but of kind .
The magnetism of iron and other magnetics is characterized by polarity ; that of diamagnetics is devoid of any trace of polarity ; the particles of two bodies of the latter class , when jointly under the influence of the magnetic forces , manifest towards each other no action whatever , either of attraction or repulsion .
It has long been known that the magnetism of iron is impaired by heat ; and it has been generally believed that a certain degree of heat destroys it entirely .
The author finds , however , that this opinion is not correct ; for he shows that , by applying more powerful tests than those which had been formerly confided in , iron , nickel and cobalt , however high their temperature may be raised , still retain a certain amount of magnetic power , of the same character as that which they ordinarily possess .
From the different temperatures at which the magnetic metals appear to lose their peculiar power , it had formerly been surmised by the author that all the metals would probably be found to possess the same character of magnetism , if their temperature could be lowered sufficiently ; but the results of the present investigation have convinced him that this is not the case , for bismuth , tin , &amp;c. are in a condition very different from that of heated iron , nickel or cobalt .
The magnetic phenomena presented by copper and a few other metals are of a peculiar character , differing exceedingly from those exhibited by either iron or bismuth , in consequence of their being complicated with other agencies , arising from the gradual acquisition and loss of magnetic power by the iron core of the electromagnet , the great conducting power of copper for electric currents , and its susceptibility of being acted upon by induced currents of magneto-electricity , as described by the author in the first and second series of these researches .
The resulting phenomena are to all appearance exceedingly singular and anomalous , and would seem to be explicable only on the principles referred to by the author .
Pursuing his inductive inquiries with a view to discover the primary law of magnetic action from which the general phenomena result , the author noticed the modifications produced by different forms given to the bodies subjected to experiment .
In order that these bodies may set either axially or equatorially , it is necessary that their section , with reference to the plane of revolution , be of an elongated shape : when in the form of a cube or sphere they have no disposition to turn in any direction : but the whole mass , if magnetic , is attracted towards either magnetic pole ; if diamagnetic , is repelled from them .
Substances divided into minute fragments , or reduced to a fine powder , obey the same law as the aggregate masses , moving in lines , which may be termed diamagnetic curves , in contradistinction to the ordinary magnetic curves , which they everywhere intersect at right angles .
These movements may be beautifully seen by sprinkling bismuth in very fine powder on paper , and tapping on the paper while subjected to the action of a magnet .
The whole of these facts , when carefully considered , are resolvable , by induction , into the general and simple law , that while every particle of a magnetic body is attracted , every particle of a diamagnetic body is repelled , by either pole of a magnet .
These forces continue to be exerted as long as the magnetic power is sustained , and immediately cease on the cessation of that power .
Thus do these two modes of action stand in the same general antithetical re .
lation to one another as the positive and negative conditions of electricity , the northern and southern polarities of ordinary magnetism , or the lines of electric and of magnetic force in magneto-electricity .
Of these phenomena , the diamagnetic are the most important , from their extending largely , and in a new direction , that character of duality which the magnetic force was already known , in a certain degree , to possess .
All matter , indeed , appears to be subject to the magnetic force as universally as it is to the gravitating , the electric , the cohesive and the chemical forces .
Small as the magnetic force appears to be in the limited field of our experiments , yet when estimated by its dynamic effects on masses of matter , it is found to be vastly more energetic than even the mighty power of gravitation , which binds together the whole universe : and there can be no doubt that it acts a most important part in nature , and conduces to some great purpose of utility to the system of the earth and of its inhabitants .
Towards the conclusion of the paper , the author enters on theoretical considerations suggested to him by the facts thus brought to light .
An explanation of all the motions and other dynamic phenomena consequent on the action of magnets on diamagnetic bodies might , he thinks , be offered on the supposition that magnetic induction causes in them a state the reverse of that which it produces in magnetic matter : that is , if a particle of each kind of matter were placed in the magnetic field , both would become magnetic , and each would have its axis parallel to the resultant of magnetic force passing through it ; but the particle of magnetic matter would have its north and south poles opposite to , or facing the contrary poles of the inducing magnet ; whereas , with the diamagnetic particles , the reverse would obtain ; and hence there would result , in the one substance , approximation ; in the other , recession .
On Ampere 's theory , this view would be equivalent to the supposition that , as currents are induced in iron and magnetics , parallel to those existing in the inducing magnet or battery wire , so , in bismuth and other diamagnetics , the currents induced are in the contrary direction .
As far as experiment yet bears upon such a notion , the inductive effects on masses of magnetic and diamagnetic metals are the same .

