Experimental Researches in Electricity.-Twenty-fifth Series .
By MICHAEL FARADAY , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Prof. Chem. Royal Institution .
Foreign Associate of the Zicad .
Sciences , Paris , Ord .
Boruss .
Pour le Me'rite , Eq. , Memb. Royal and Imp .
Acadd .
of Sciences , Petersburgh , Florence , Copenhagen , Berlin , Gottingen , Modena , Stockholm , Munich , Bruxelles , Vienna , Bologna , &amp;c. 48c .
Received August 15 , -Read November 28 , 1850 .
( 31 .
On the magnetic and diamagnetic condition of bodies .
T i. Non-expansion of gaseous bodies by magnetic force .
T ii .
Diffrential magnetic action . ?
iii .
Magnetic characters of Oxygen , Nitrogen and Space .
[ i. Non-expansion of gaseous bodies by magnetic force .
2718 .
THERE can be no doubt that the magnetic force , the diamagnetic force , and the magneoptic or magnecrystallic force , will , when thoroughly understood , be found to unite or exist under one form of power , and be essentially the same .
Hence the great interest which exists in the development of any one of these modes of action ; for differing so greatly as they do in very peculiar points , it is hardly possible that any one of them should be advanced in its illustration or comprehension , without a corresponding advance in the knowledge of the others .
Stimulated by such a feeling , I have been engaged with PLUCKER , WEBER , REISCH and others , in endeavouring to make out , with some degree of precision , the mode of action of diamagnetic as well as magnecrystallic bodies ; and the recent investigation ( 2640 , &amp;c. ) and endeavour to confirmn the idea of polarity in bismuth and diamagnetic bodies , the reverse of that in a magnet or in iron bodies , was one of the results of that conviction and desire .
2719 .
Having failed however to establish the existence of such an antipolarity , and having shown , as I think , that the phenomena which were supposed to be due to it are in fact dependent upon other conditions and causes , I was induced , in the search after something precise as to the nature of diamagnetic bodies , to examine another idea which had arisen in consequence of the development of magnetic and diamagnetic phenomena amongst gaseous substances : this thought , with some of the results which have grown out of it during its experimental examination , I purpose making the subject of the present paper .
2720 .
BANCALARI first showed that flamne was diamagnetic* .
The effect , as I proved , was due chiefly to the heated state of gaseous portions of the flarnet ; but besides that , it appeared that at common temperatures diamagnetic phenomena could be exhibited by gases ; and also that in their production the gases differed very much one from another* ; so that , taking common air , for instance , as a standard , nitrogen , and many other gases , were strongly diamagnetic in relation to it , whilst oxygen took on the appearance of a magnetic body ; for they were repelled from , while it was attracted to , the place of maximum force in the magnetic field .
2721 .
Recalling the general law given respecting the action of magnetic and diamagnetic bodies ( 2267 , 2418 ) , nanlely , that the former tended to go from weaker to stronger places , and the latter from stronger to weaker places of magnetic power , and applying it to such bodies as the gases , which are at the same time both highly elastic and easily changed in bulk by the superaddition of very small degrees of force , it would seem to follow , that if the particles of a diamagnetic gas tended to go from strong to weak places of action , in consequence of the direct and immediate effect of the magnetic power on them , then such a gas should tend to become enlarged or expanded in the magnetic field .
For the amount of power by which the particles would tend to recede from the axis of the magnetic field , would be added to the expansive force by which they before resisted the pressure of the atosphere ; that pressure would therefore be in part sustained by the new force , and expansion would of necessity be the restlt .
On the other hand , if a gas were magnetic ( as for instance oxygen ) , then the force cast upon the particles , by such a direct and immediate action of the magnetic power upon them , would urge them towards the axis of the magnetic field , and so coinciding with , and being superadded to the pressure of the atmosphere , would tend to cause contraction and dirninution of bulk .
2722 .
If such supposititious cases were to prove true , we should then be able to arrive at the knowledge of the real zero-point ( 2416 , 2432 , 2440)ft , not amongst gases only , but amongst all bodies , and should be able to tell whether such a gas as oxygen were a nagnetic or a diamagnetic body , and also able to range individual gases and other substances in their proper places .
And though I had originally endeavoured to ascertain whether there was any change in the bulk of air in the magnetic field , and found none , still PLUCKER'S statement that he has obtained such an effect , and the great enlargement of knowledge respecting the gases which since then we have acquired relating to their diamagnetic relations , and especially of the great difference which exists between them , encouraged me to proceed .
2723 .
I first endeavoured to determine whether there was any affection of the layer of air ( or other gas ) immediately in contact with the magnetic pole , which , either by the consequent expansion or contraction of that layer , could render it able to affect the course of a ray of light and thus make manifest the changes occurring within .
A metal screen , with a pin-hole in it , was set up before the flame of a bright lamp in a dark room , and thus an artificial star or small definite lumninous object was formed .
Forty-six feet from it was placed the great horseshoe magnet ( 2247 .
) , ready to be excited by twenty pairs of GROVE'S plates ; the poles were in a line , so that the ray from the lamp passed for 4 inches close to the surface of the first pole , then through 6 inches of air , and then , for 4 inches , close to the surface of the second pole .
A very fine refracting telescope , belonging to Sir JAMES SOUTH , having an aperture of 3 inches and 46 inches focal length , received the ray .
The telescope was furnished with a perfect micrometer , so that the smallest change in the place of the luminous image could be observed on the threads .
The axis of the telescope was just above the level of the magnetic poles .
Not the smallest change in either the character or place of the luminous image could be observed , either on the making or the breaking of the contact between the voltaic battery and the magnetic wire .
2724 .
As the .
chief part of the light which camne to the telescope consisted of rays which passed at some distance above the magnetic poles , these were cut off by a screen , which rising only one-eighth of an inch above the level of the poles , allowed no ray to pass that was not within that distance .
The intensity of the light was of course diminished , and the image was distorted by inflection ; still its place was well marked by the micrometer .
Not the slightest change in that or any other character occurred in the supervention or the withdrawal of the magnetic force .
2725 .
The terminals of the magnetic poles were then varied , so that the ray sometimes passed parallel and close to a long right-angled edge , or parallel to and between two right-angled edges , a little above or below them , or over the line joining two hemispherical poles , placed close together ( and also in many other ways ) , but in no case did the magnetic action produce any effect upon the course of the ray .
2726 .
In another form of the experiment the telescope was dismissed , and a simple card , with a pin-hole -j1th or -47th of an inch in diameter , employed in its place .
The image of the star of light could be seen through the pin-hole in the dark room , and yet every ray tending to its formation passed within -1-th of an inch of the surface of the magnetic pole ; still no effect due to the magnetic force could be observed .
2727 .
By another arrangement of the polar terminations , analogous to one I had formerly employed when experimenting on the diamagnetic relations of the gases * , I was able to surround them with other gaseous substances than air , and subject the ray for 2 inches of its course to these gases whilst under the influence of the magnet .
Though the glass of the enclosing vessel disturbed the image of the object , i. e. the point of light , yet it was easy to perceive that no additional effect occurred when the magnetism was superinduced .
2728 .
Oxygen , nitrogen , hylrogen and coal-gas were thus employed ; but whether any one of these , or whether air itself was submnitted to examination , when in contact with the active pole of a very powerful magnet , it did not appear to be either expanded or condensed to such a degree as to cause any sensible change in its refiactive force .
In order to compare the expected result with the real result due to change of volume , I took a bar of iron 7 inches long , and placed it so that the ray from the luminous object in passing to the eye should proceed by the side of the bar at not more than ?
oth of an inch from it , and then raised the temperature of the bar gradually , until by expanding the air in contact with it , the course of the ray of light was sensibly affected ; to do this it required to be exalted many degrees .
When the air of the place was at 60 ?
and the iron raised to 100 ?
FAHR. , the effect was not distinct .
Hence it seemed , that observation of the expected change of volume of the air would be rendered far more sensible by some arrangement , measuring that change directly , than by such means as those referred to above , dependent on refractive force ; for it is certain that the change of volume , in a very small quantity of air , raised from 60 ?
to 100 ?
, would be very evident by the former method .
On the other hand , it was just possible that if the air or gas was affected by the magnet , it might only be in that film immediately contiguous to the pole ; and also that great differences in the degree of change might exist along the edge of a solid angle , and along the sides of the planes forming that angle .
Hence the assumed necessity for examining those parts by a ray of light ; and every precaution was taken , by inclining the course of the ray a little more or less to the sides or edges of the poles , and by making the sides or edges very slightly convex , to include every variation of the experiment , that might help to make any magnetic or diamagnetic effect , whether special or local , or general , manifest ; but without effect .
2730 .
I proceeded , as these attempts had failed , to endeavour to determine and compare the volume of air subjected to the magnetic force , before and after its subjection ; and there seemrned to be the greater hope of obtaining some results in this way , provided any such change was a consequence of the action of magnetic power , because air and gases , at a considerable distance from the surface of the magnet , are known to be strongly affected diamagnetically , and because PLiUCKER had already said he had obtained such change of volume ( 2722 .
) .
2731 .
The first instrument constructed for this purpose was of the following kind .
Two blocks of soft iron , each 1 inch thick and 3 inches square , having filed and flattened surfaces , were prepared ; and also a sheet of copper , --th of an inch in thickness and 3 inches square , having its middle part cut away to within 0'3 of an inch of the edge all round .
This plate or frame was then placed between the iron blocks , and the whole held together very tightly by copper screws , so as to make an airchamber -loth of an inch wide and 2'4 inches square , having the faces of the blocks , which were to become the magnetic poles , for its sides .
Three apertures and corresponding passages gave access to the interior of this chamber ; small stopcocks were attached to each .
By two of these , any gas , after it had been properly dried , could be sent into the chamber , or swept out of it , by any other entering gas ; and to the third was attached a gauge ( 2732 .
) Fig. for the purpose of indicating and measuring any change of volume which might occur .
/ / The edges of the central copper plate and the heads of the countersunk screws , were touched with white hard varnish , and the chamber thus rendered perfectly tight , under every condition to which it had to be sub ) / / jected ( fig. 1 ) .
2732 .
The gauges were formed of small capillary tubes from 1*5 to 3 inches in length , the diameter in the middle of their length being less than one-half of that at either termination .
These were fixed at one end into a small socket , Fig. 2 .
which screwed on to the third , or gauge-cock mentioned above ( 2731 .
) .
A minute portion of spirit , coloured by cochineal , being put into the external.end of this gauge , from a slip of wood or glass , immediately advanced to the middle or narrowest part , forming , as it always should do , a single portion of fluid .
By shutting the cock , this little cylinder could be easily retained in its place undisturbed during the filling of the air-chamber with gas , and the adjustment of its pressure to equality with that of the atmosphere .
On shutting the other cocks and opening the gauge-cock , the gauge was then ready to show any change of volume which the supervention of the magnetic force might cause ; but to give it the highest degree of sensibility , it was necessary previously to make the liquid cylinder travel right and left of its place of rest , that the tube might be moistened on each side of the indicating fluid ; an effect easily obtained by inclining the chamber to and fio , the gravity of the fluid making it pass one way or the other .
But this and many other necessary precautions as to position , temperature , .
, can only be learned from experience .
2733 .
When this box was in its place , it stood between the poles of the great electro-magnet , wit the plane of the gas-amber in the in equatorial position ; then square blocks of soft iron , resting on the magnet poles , were made to abut and bear against the sides of the box , so that in fact the inner faces of the air-chapber were the e wirtual magnetic poles , and being 3 inches square were only -1 ?
th of an inch apart .
Hence , whatever air or gas was within the chamber , would be subjected to a very powerful magnetic action , and could have very small changes in its bulk measured ; but it is perhaps necessary to observe , that it would be contained in a field having everywhere lines of equawl magnetic power ( 2463 .
2465 .
) .
2734 .
Air was introduced into the box , and when all was properly arranged , the place of the indicating fluid was observed by a microscope .
Then the magnet was rendered powerfully active , and there appeared a very slight motion of the fluid , as if the air were a little expanded ; on taking off the magnetic force the fluid returned to c2 11 its first place .
The same effect recurred again and again .
The amount of this change was very small , and there was reason to refer it to the pressure exercised by the magnet , when in action , upon the sides of the iron box ; for afterwards , when the box was placed in a vice and squeezed , the same motion in the fluid occurred ; and farther , when the square blocks of soft iron ( 2733 .
) were kept apart by an under block of wood , so as not absolutely to touch and press the box , the effect was reduced to almost nothing .
2735 .
Oxygen , nitrogen , carbonic acid and nitrous oxide gases , were then intro(luced successively into the iron box , and with exactly the same result as with air .
No difference appeared between oxygen and the other gases , greatly as they differ in magnetic and diamagnetic force and relations .
Hydrogen and coal-gas were also subjected to experiment ; but when these gases were in the box there was a gradual recession of the indicating fluid , due , as I found , to the absorption of the gases , probably either by the varnish or cement or cork used at the gauge , or at the joints of the box .
The delicacy of the gauge was thus made manifest ; but when the effect was taken into account , it was found that these gases were equally unaffected in bulk as the other gases by the magnetic influence .
2736 .
The diameter of the gauge , at the place where the fluid was placed , was rather less than T-o-th of an inch .
An amount of motion equal to 1-6oth of an inch was easily discerned .
Comparing these numbers with the capacity of the gas-chamber , it would appeal ' that if the gas in the latter had expanded or contracted to the extent of i,0-th part , the result would have been visible ; or any difference approaching to this amount , between oxygen and nitrogen or the other gases , would have become sensible , but no such effects or differences appeared .
2737 .
As the establishment of either the occuzrrence or the absence of change of volume in gases , when under the magnetic influence , appeared to me to be of great and almost equal itmportance , I was led to consider whether , in the experimrent just described , the circumstance of the gases having been subjected to the magnetic power in a field of equal force ( 2733 .
) might not have interfered with the production of the effect sought for ; for such a field is that where the diamagnetic phenomena , of solid and liquid bodies , occur in the most unfavourable tanner , and where indeed they almost entirely disappear .
I therefore constructed another apparatus so that this condition was removed , and in which , if the particles of the diamagnetic gas , by any unknown disposition of the powers in action , tended only to pass from strong to weaker places of force , and being thus incapable of enlargement in the axial direction , vwouIld only show that effect equatorially , the opportunity for their doing so should be present .
Fig. 3 2738 .
A cylinder of soft iron had the central parts removed in a lathe , until it had assumed the form of an hour-glass , or that repre/ sented in fig. 3 , which is to a scale of one-third .
When placed between the poles of the magnet instead of the former box , it was expected that the continuation of the iron throughout would prevent any diminution of its length , from the pressure of the poles ( 2734 .
) , and that the diamagnetic phenomena would be abundantly produced in the parts from whence the iron had been removed .
The latter was found to be the fact , for flame , smoke , bislmuth and other diamagnetic matter , when placed there , passed equatorially very freely .
2739 .
A copper tube , 2'5 inches long , made of metal 0'1 of an inch thick , was fitted to the iron , so that when in its place it should occupy the position represented ( fig. 3 ) , and could easily be made perfectly gas-tight by a little soft cement .
In this way it formed an annular air-chamnber round the iron , which , when measured , was found to have a capacity of rather more than 2 cubic inches , and included the most intense part of the magnetic field .
Three stopcocks were fitted into this copper jacket , by two of which gas was passed into and out of the chamber , and the third was appropriated to the pressure-gauge as before .
Whilst naked , this apparatus could not be used , because of its ever-varying temperature , and the consequent disturbance and ejectment of the fluid in the gauge ; but when clothed in three thicknesses of flannel its temperature was perfectly steady ; and by the further use of wooden keys to turn the cocks the apparatus became unexceptionable .
2740 .
Before proceeding to employ this apparatus with different gases , and in orderto obtain some idea of what might be expected by comparing one gas with another , I made a preliminary experiment , dependent on the relative specific gravities of air and hydrogen , of the following nature .
It is easy to diffuse a trace of ammonia through the air of a jar , by putting a little paper wetted with a strong solution into it* ; and it is equally easy to send a jet of hydrogen , containing the smallest portion the course of the light hydrogen in the heavy air is rendered very distinctly visible ; and it is seen , on leaving the horizontal tube , to turn at once upwards and to ascend rapidly , becomg wid ine-drawn in its cour se , in consequence of its small specific gravity compaied to air .
2741 .
Two hemispherical iron pole terminations , associated with the great magnet , were then placed in contact with each other , so that they might be surrounded either by air or oxygenf , and the jet of hydrogen , delivering at the rate of 6 cubic inches per minute , was placed exactly bleneath the axial line , in the centre of the magnetic field .
When there was no magnetic force emnployed the hydrogen rose vertically , breaking against the points where the hemispherical poles touched ; but when the magnetic power was on , the stream of hydrogen divided into two parts , moving right cand left , and ascended in two streamrs at a distance from the point of contact .
Now this division took place at a certain distance below the axial line ; and at that point , notwithstanding the ascensive power of hydrogen in air or oxygen , it was constrained to go horizontally by the apparently repulsive power of the magnetic force , and did not in its further course approach nearer to the axial line , but formed a curve concentric with it , or nearly so , so that the compound streams of gas assumed exactly the shape of a tuning-fork .
2742 .
When air occupied the magnetic field , the division of the stream of hydrogen was 03 or 032 of an inch below the axial line .
When oxygen was about the poles , then the division of the hydrogen took place as far off as 0 55 of an inch below the axial line .
Hence at these distances the power which tended to make the hydrogen pass from the axial line , equatorially in the direction of the radius , was equal to the difference of the specific gravity of hydrogen compared with that of air and oxygen respectively .
At lesser distances the power would be much greater ; and indeed , if in any experiment the hydrogen was delivered nearer to the axial line , it was blown downwards and away with much force .
Calculating with these data , and still assuming that the diamagnetic gases receded from the axial line , in consequence of the direct action of the magnet and that only , causing them to pass from stronger to weaker places of action , I found , as I thought , reason to believe that the more diamagnetic gases , occupying the space within the copper box ( 2739 .
) , might probably be expanded at least 60 , ,0th part of their volume by the magnetic force .
Now the gauges that I employed were sensible when the fluid in them moved the aounth of an inch ( 2736 .
) , yet that space is only the 2,50a th part of the capacity of the chamber , and therefore such an expansion as that above would have made it move through 0i4 of an inch ; a quantity abundantly sufficient to render the result sensible if the fundamental assumption were correct .
2743 .
Air was first submitted to the power of the great horseshoe magnet , urged by twenty pairs of GROVE'S plates in this apparatus ( 2739 .
) .
The fluid moved very slightly outwards , as if a little expansion occurred on putting on the magnetic force , and returned when the force was taken off .
This small effect was found afterwards to be due to compression , occasioned by the tendency of the magnetic poles to apploximate ( 2734 .
) .
2744 .
Oxygen presented exactly the same appearances as common air and to the same amount , so that no effect , due to magnetic or diamagnetic action , was here evident , but only that of the compression observed in the case of air ( 2743 .
) .
2745 .
Nitrogen gave exactly the same results as oxygen and air .
Now nitrogen is probably more diamagnetic than hydrogen , and should therefore have given a striking contrast with oxygen , if any positive results were to be obtained .
2746 .
Carbonic acid and nitrous oxide gases yielded the same negative results , and , as I believe , when the apparatus was in an unexceptionable condition .
2747 .
There is at the Pharmaceutical Society an excellent electro-magnet , of the horseshoe form , similar in arrangement to our own ( 2247 .
) , but far more powerful , and this through Mr. REDWOOD I was favoured with the use of , for the repetition of the foregoing experiments at the house of the Society .
The iron , which is very soft and good in quality , is a square bar , 5 inches in thickness , and the medium line is 50 inches in length .
It has 1500 feet of copper wire , 0 175 of an inch in thickness , coiled round it , and arranged ( when I used it ) in one continuous length .
The moveable terminal pieces for the poles are massive in proportion to the magnet .
Eighty pairs of GROVE'S plates were used to excite this magnet , and as it was found , by preliminary trials , that these were most powerful when arranged as four twenties , with their similar ends connected , they were so used , constituting a battery of twenty pairs of plates , in which each platinumn plate was 4X9 inches in thie immnersed part , and therefore presented 72 square inches of surface towards the active zinc .
2748 .
On repeating the former experiments ( 2743 .
) the effect of pressure was again evident , and it was manifest that the magnet itself , though 5 inches in thickness was a little bent by the mutual attraction of its poles .
The effect was very small , because of the unity of the iron core passing through the centre of the experimental gaschamber ( 2738 .
) .
It was the only effect indicated by the gauge , and was the same for all the gases ; and when allowance was made for it , nothing remained to indicate any change in volume of the gas itself .
2749 .
Air , oxygen , nzitrogen , carbonic acid and nitrous oxide were sutbmitted , in varying order , to the effect of this very powerful magnet , but not the slightest trace of change of bulk in any of them appeared .
2750 .
I think that the experiments are in every respect sufficient to decide that these gases , whether they are considered as magnetic or diamagnetic bodies , or whether they include bodies of both classes ( for oxygen is in striking contrast to the rest ) , are not affected in volume by the magnetic force , whether in fields of equal power ( 2737 .
) , or in places where the power is rapidly diminishing .
I think this decision very important in relation to the true nature of the magnetic force , either as existing in , or acting upon the particles of bodies ; and as in the magnetic field the force exhibits itself , not as a central but as an axial power , so the further distinction of the phenomena , into such as are related to the axial direction ( 2733 .
) , and such as are related to or include the equatorial direction ( 2737 .
) , is not unimportant , for they show that the patrticles do not tend to separate either parallel to the lines of magnetic power , or in a direction perpendicular to these lines .
Without the experiments , the mind might have considered it very possible that one of these modes of expansion might have occurred and not the other .
2751 .
No doubt it is true , that even yet changes in volume in these directions may occur , provided the change in one direction is expansion and in the other contraction , and that these are in amount equal to each other .
It was partly in reference to such possible changes ( which may be considered as molecular ) , that the experiments with the ray of light were made ( 2723 .
2729 .
) , and also that in these and other experiments instituted for the purpose , a polarized ray was employed as the examiner ; but the results were always negative , when by repetition and care sources of error were removed .
2752 .
The great differences in the degree of diamagnetic susceptibility and condition which the gases employed in the foregoing experiments possess or can assumne , are such as to make one ready to suppose , that if they show no tendency in any case 15 to change in volume under the action of the magnet , so neither would any other gas or vapour do so , but that all the individuals belonging to this great class of bodies would be alike in that respect .
In connection with this conclusion I may state , that I have on former occasions , and more lately , endeavoured to ascertain , by the use of very delicate apparatus and powerful electro-magnets , whether any change was produced in the volume of such fluids as water , alcolhol and solution of sulphate of iron , but could observe no effect of the kind , and I do not believe in its existence .
Still more recently , and in reference to the class of solid bodies , I have submitted iron as a magnetic metal , and bismuth as a diamagnetic body , to the same examination ; the metals were employed both in the state of solid cylinders and of filings or fragments .
The cylinders were put into glass tubes and the particles into glass bottles ; gauges , like those described ( 2732 .
) , were applied to them , and that part of the containing vessel which was not filled with metal , was occupied , in one set of experiments , by air , and in another by alcohol , yet in no case could the least change in the volume of the irton or bismuth be observed , however powerful the magnetic force to which they were submitted .
2753 .
One other result of a repulsive force seemed possible even in cases when , according to a former supposition ( 2751 .
) , the tendency to expand equatorially might be compensated by an equal amount of tendency to contract in the axial direction , namely , that of the production of currents outwards or equatorially , i. e. in lines perpendicular to the magnetic axis , where pointed poles or the hour-glass core , already described , were used , and of other currents setting in towards that line along the inclined surfaces of the polar terminations ; in some degree like those occurring so powerfully , and traced so readily when flame or hot air is observed in air , or whren a stream of one gas is observed in another gas .
2754 .
When however the gas occupying the whole of the magnetic field was uniform in nature and alike in temperature , not the slightest trace of such currents as these could be observed .
It is not easy to devise unexceptionable tests of such motions , because visible bodies introduced into such a magnetic field to test the mnovements of the air there , are thermselves diamagnetic ; and if they form a little isolated cloud , are moved together and away as a diamagnetic body would be ; but when the whole field was occupied pretty equially by very light particles of dust or lycopodiutm , and the magnet in powerful action , no signs of currents in the air were visible .
Further , ; when a faint streatn of diffuse cold smoke from a taperl spark ?
was allowed to fall or rise a little on one side of the axial line , it was determined outwards and equatorially ; but though it went outwards with the most force when equidistant from the two conical poles , or their reptesentative parts in the double iron core ( 2738 .
) , still when it was made to pass near to one side , it continued to go outwards and equatorially , even when , from its close vicinity to the iron surface , it had as it were to move * Philosophical Magazine , 1847 , vol. xxxi .
pp. 402 , 404 , 409 .
t Ibid , p. 403 .
over it ; showing that the tendency of the smoke was outwards in every part of the magnetic field occupied by air or gas , and that therefore its motion was due to the action of the magnet on it as a diamagnetic , and not to currents of the air , which , if existing , would be inwards in one place or direction , and outwards in another .
2755 .
When magnetic or diamagnetic fluids were subject to the magnetic force upon a plate of mica over the poles , according to the ingenious arrangement of PLCKER , tha they quickly assumed the different forms correspondent to their nature , but after that there was no further motion or current in them .
The cases are no doubt different to those where the whole of the magnetic field is occupied by the same medium ; still , as far as it goes , it helps to confirm the conclusion that no currents are formed .
On putting the same liquids between the poles in glass cells , no magnetic currents could be observed in them , though fine particles were introduced into the fluids , for the purpose of making such changes of place visible , if they occurred .
2756 .
So there is no evidence , either by the action on a ray of light ( 2727 .
2729 .
) , or by any expansion or contraction ( 2750 .
) , or by the production of any currents ( 2754 .
) that the magnet exerts any direct power of attraction or repulsion on the particles of the different gases tried , or that they move in there magnetic field , as they are known to do , by any such immediate attraction or repulsion .
s ii .
Differential magnetic action .
2757 .
Then what is the cause of the diamagnetic change of place ?
The effect is evidently a differential result , depending upon the differences of the two portions or masses of matter occupying the magnetic field , as the air and the streams of other gas in it* , or mercury and the tube of air in it ( 2407 .
) , or water and the piece of bismuth in it ( 2301 .
) ; and though exlhibited only in the action of imasses , the latter must no doubt owe their differences to the qualities of the particles composing them .
Yet it is to be observed , that no attempt to separate the perfectly mixed particles of very different substances has ever succeeded , though made with most powerftl magnets .
Oxygen and nitrogen differ exceedingly , yet no appearance of the least degree of separation occurred in very powerful magnetic fields+ .
In other experiments I have enclosed a dilute solution of sulphate of iron in a tube , and placed the lower end of the tube between the poles of a powerful horseshoe magnet for days together , in a place of perfectly uniform temperature , and yet without the least appearance of any concentration of the solution in that end which might indicate a tendency in the particles to separate .
2758 .
The diamragnetic phenomena of the gases , when considered as the differential result of the action of volumnes of these bodies , may be produced and examined in a very useful manner by the employment of soap-bubbles , as follows:-A glass tube was fitted with a cap , stopcock and bladder , so that any given gas contained in the blad* Philosophical Magazine , 1847 , vol. xxxi .
p. 409 .
Ibid. p , 416 .
der might be sent through it , and also with a foot or Fig. 4 .
stand so that it might be placed in any required position .
The end of the tube was drawn down , bent at right angles , and cut off straight across at the extremity , being of the size and shape represented in fig 4 .
2759 .
It is easy to blow soap-bubbles at the end of such a tube , of any size up to an inch in diameter , and retain them for the time required by the action of the stopcock .
The soapy water should be prepared , when wanted ( and not beforehand ) , by putting a cutting or two of soap into a little cold distilled water , for then bubbles of the thinnest and most equable texture can be blown , which are more mobile than if thicker suds be used , and if a little care be taken , quite permanent enough for every useful experiment .
The end of the pipe should be perfectly clean and free from heterogeneous matter ( which is often destructive of the bubble ) , and should be wetted both inside and outside with the soapwater , and left awhile in it before use .
2760 .
If a bubble be blown with the end of the tube downwards , and be half an inch in diameter , it will usually have a little extra water at the bottom , and will hang from the slender extremity of the tube by an attachment so small as to allow it great freedom of motion .
Hence it will swing to and fio like a pendulum ; and according as there is more or less water at the bottom , it will vibrate more or less rapidly , will , as a whole , gravitate mote or less powerfully , and therefore will retain its perpendicularly dependent position with more or less stability , -circumstances which are very useful in the employment of the bubble as a magnetic or diamagnetic indicator .
2761 .
The determination of the relative quantity of water which is in or upon the bubble is easily obtained within certain lilmits .
If , after the pipe is dipped in the soapwater , the end be touched with a piece of wood or glass rod , which has also been kept in the soap-water , more or less of the liquid may be removed ; and by observing the height at which the flhiid stands by capillary action within the tube , which may be varied between -= , th and 2an inch , it is easy , after a few experimental trials , to observe how much is required to make a bubble chalged with a celtain amount of water , and how little to give a bubble without any dependent water below ; and then it is just as easy , by arranging the amount of water beforehand , to blow a bubble of any required character .
Even when no drop of uwater is left at the bottom , still a range of thickness or thinness in the film itself can be obtained .
2762 .
As the bubbles contain less and less of water , so are they rendered more sensitive in their action .
They vibrate slower , and are more easily moved by forces applied laterally to them .
The diamagnetic effect of the soap-water constituting theri is less , and therefore that of the gas contained within them comparatively greater .
If the bubble is very thin , the dependent position becomes a position of unstable equilibrium , for any inclination of the tube , or any lateral force , however small , then causes the bubble to pass to one side , and to run up and adhere to the side of the tube , fig. 5 .
The dependent position supplies , in enclosed spaces or atmospheres , an exceedingly delicate indicator ; and even when the bubble is on the side of the tube it still forms a very valuable instrument , for it freely moves round the tube as axis ; and as it possesses a certain degree of steadiness , it can be held in the magnetic field in any position , and by its motion to or from the axial line , shows very well the magnetic or diamag , netic condition of the gas contained in it in relation to the surrounding air .
2763 .
If the mouth of the tuibe be turned upwaards , bubbles of the thinnest texture can be blown ; but they are then also very unstable in position , and run to the side of the tube ; they can be used as indicators , as above ( 2762 .
) .
If the mouth of the tube be made broader , the bubbles , being thin , can be retained standing on the extremity ; but as their attachment is larger , so they require more force to move them sideways , and they lose in delicacy of indication .
2764 .
It is convenient , in working with such bubbles , to make them nearly equal in size and thickness for the same set of comparative experiments .
I usually employ them about half an inch in diameter .
On blowing such a bubble with air , in the dependent position , placing it in the angle of the double pole on a level with the axial line ( fig. 6 ) , and then putting on the magnetic power , by the use of twenty pair of Fig. 6 .
plates the bubble was deflected outwards from the axial line ( or / equatorially ) with a certain amnount of force , and returned to its first position on the interruption of the electric current .
The deflection was not great , and being due to the water of the bubble , gave an indication of the amtount of that effect , to be used as a correction in experimrents with other gases .
2765 .
Nitrogen in air.-A buibble of nitrogen went outwards or equatorially in commtnon air with a force much surpassing the outward tendency of a bubble of air ( 2764 .
) , in a very striking and illustrative manner .
It was often driven up from the end to the side of the tube ; and when on the side , if presented inwards , it was driven to the outside of the tube , and however the tube was turned round , kept that position as long as the magnetic force was maintained .
This effect is the more striking when it is considered that four-fifths of the air itself is nitrogen gas .
2766 .
Oxygen in air.-The effect was very impressive , the bubble being pulled inwards or towards the axial line shartply and suddenly , exactly as if the oxygen were highly magnetic .
The result was expected , being in accordance with the phenomena presented by oxygen and nitrogen in a former investigation of the diamagnetic phenomena of the gases .
2767 .
Nitrous oxide and olefiant gases in air.-The bubbles went outwards or diamagnetically with a force much gireater than that due to the effect of the water of the bubble , proving the relation of these gases to air , and according with the results formerly obtained with streams of these substancest .
* Philosophical Magazine , 1847 , vol. xxxi .
pp. 410 , 415 .
t Ibid. p. 411 .
D2 19 There is no difficulty in applying this method of observation to experiments with gases in atmospheres of other gases than air , provided they be sluch as do not destroy the bubble ; but I do not consume time by detailing the results of such experiments , which accorded perfectly with those before obtained* .
The description given is quite sufficient to illustrate the point stated , namely , that the motions of the gases , one in another , when in the magnetic field , is a differential result , and supply sufficient cases for reference hereafter .
2769 .
The same conclusion , that the effect is a differential result of the masses of matter present in the magnetic field , is also manifest from the consideration of the cases of gaseous , liquid , and solid diamagnetic bodies , advanced in a former part of these Researches( 2405-14 .
) ; and a conclusion of the same kind , as regards magnetic bodies , may also be drawn froii experiments then described ( 2361-68 .
) .
[ iii .
Magnetic characters of Oxygen , Nitrogen and Space .
2770 .
The differential action of two portions of gas , or of any two bodies , may , by a more elaborate method , be examined in a manner far more interesting and important than that just described .
The mode of action referred to may even be made the basis of instruments , by which , probably , most important indications and measurements of both magnetic and diamagnetic actions may be obtained , leading to results which are not even as yet contemplated by the imagination .
2771l If two portions of matter , gaseous or liquid , are tied together and placed in a symmetric magnetic field , on opposite sides of the magnetic axis , they will be simnultaneously affected .
If both are diamagnetic , or less magnetic than the medium occupying the magnetic field , both will tend to go outwards or equatorially ; equally if they are alike , but unequally if they differ .
The consequence will be , that , if they are placed , in the first instance , equidistant from the magnetic axis , the supervention of the magnetic force will not alter their position , provided they be alike ; but if they differ , then their position will be changed ; for the most diamagnetic will move outwards equatorially , pulling the least diamagnetic inwards until the two are in such new positions that the forces acting on them are equipoised , and they will assume a position of stable equilibrium .
Now the distance through which they will move may be used indirectly , or better still , the force required to restore them to their equidistant position may be employed directly to estimate the tendency each had to go from the magnetic axis ; that is , to give their relative diamagnetic intensities .
2772 .
That I might submit gases to such a method of examination , I selected a piece of very thin and regular flint-glass tube , about -ths of an inch external diameter , and not more than 6-1th of an inch in thickness , and drawing at the blowpipe lamp two equable portions of this tube into the shape and size represented , fig. 7 , in which the barrel part is 1I inch long , I filled one with oxygen gas and the other Fig. 7 .
K with nitrogen gas , and then sealed them up hermetically .
The end of the prolonged part of each was touched whilst warm with sealing-wax and a thread fastened to it , which thread was tied into a loop , also represented of full size .
By these the tubes were to be suspended perpendicularly from a torsion balance , so that the middle of each should , when in place , be on a level with the magnetic axis .
2773 .
The torsion balance consisted of a bundle of sixty equally stretched cocoon silk fibres , made fast above to a vertical axis carrying a horizontal index and graduated plate , and below to a horizontal lever .
A cross bar , about 1inch long , was attached to one end of this lever , also in the horizontal plane ; and on the extrenlities of this cross bar , and 82 inches from the centre of motion , were hung the two tubes of oxygen and nitrogen ( 2772 .
) , counterbalanced by a weight on the other arm of the horizontal level .
The whole was thus so placed and adjusted in relation to the electro-magnet , furnished at the time with the double cone core or keeper ( 2764 .
) , that the middle part of each tube was level with the middle of the core , and equidistant on each side from it .
Under these circumstances , if any motion was given to the balance , so as to make its arm vibrate , the vibrations were made with great slowness , in consequence of the weight of the whole moving arrangement , and the small amount of torsion force in the cocoon silk .
2774 .
The moment the magnetic force was thrown into action all things changed .
The oxygen tube was immediately carried inwards towards the axis , and the nitrogen tube driven outwards on the contrary side .
The balance swung beyond its new place of rest and then returned with considerable power , vibrating many times in the period , which before was filled by a single oscillation ; and when it4had come to its place of rest , or of stable equilibrium , the oxygen tube was about one-eighth of an inch from the iron of the core , and the nitrogen tube four-eighths distant .
Ten revolutions of the torsion axis altered only in a slight degree these relative distances .
2775 .
The actions which determine the mutual self-adjustment of the oxygen and nitrogen , as regards their place in relation to the magnetic axis , are very simple and evident .
In the first place , the glass of the tubes is more diamagnetic than the surrounding mnedium or air ( 2424 .
) , and therefore each tends to move outwards ; but being equal in nature and condition to each other , they tend to move with equal force when at equal distances , and at those distances compensate each other .
If one be driven inwards , it is subjected to a greater exertion of force by coming into a more intense part of the magnetic field ; and the other , being at the same time carried outwards , is for a corresponding reason in a place of less intense action ; and therefore , as soon as the constraint is removed , the system returns to its position of stable equilibrium , in which the two bodies are equidistant from the magnetic axis .
2776 .
The contents also of the tubes are subject to the magnetic forces , and as the result shows ( 2774 .
) , in very different degrees .
Either the oxygen tends inwards much more forcibly than the nitrogen , or the nitrogen tends outwards more powerfully than the oxygen ; and the difference must exist to a very great degree , for it is such as to carry the glass of the oxygen tube up to a position so near the axis that it 21 could not by itself , or with mere air inside , retain it for a moment without the aid of considerable restraint .
The power with which the tubes only would retain their equidistant position , conbined with the extent to which they are displaced from this position , shows the gleat arnount of force which this conjoint action of the oxygen and the nitrogen leaves free to be exerted in the one direction , namely , from the oxygen inwards or axially , for thotgh the action be complicated the result is simple .
By former experiments , the nitrogen is known to pass equatorially and the oxygen axially in air* , and the nitrogen tube will pass equatorially according to a certain differential force , depending on the flint-glass and the nitrogen on the one hand , and the bulk of air displaced by them on the other .
The oxygen tube in like manner will tend to pass axially by a differential force , the amount of which will depend upon the tendency of the oxygen to go axially , of its tube to go equatorially , and of their joint relation to the air they displace .
But both the tubes and their contents are by their joint relation to the air and their mechanical connexion so related to each other , that when a force ( as of torsion ) is employed to riestore them to their equidistant position from the magnetic axis , all consideration of the matter of the tubes and of the air as a surrounding medium may be dismissed .
The gases within them may be considered as in immediate relation with each other and the magnetic axis , and disembarrassed from all other actions : and the force which may be found needful to place them equidistant , is the measurie of their magnetic or diamagnetic differences .
2777 .
1Having thus explained the general principles of action , I will not at present go into their application in the construction of a measuring instrument or the results obtained with it , further than is required for the general elucidation of magnetic and diamagnetic bodies , and the determination of the true zero-point ( 2721 .
2722 .
) .
2778 .
The principles just described enabled me to return to a mrethod of investigation which on a former occasion greatly excited my hopes ( 2433 .
) , but which seemed then suddenly cut off by want of power .
Various bodies , whether considered as magnetic or diatnagnetic substances , admit of two modes of treatment , which promise to be exceedingly instructive as regards their pioperties and their destined purposes in natural operation .
A gas may be heated or cooled , and the effect of temperature , which is known to be very influentialt , may now be ascertained without any change in the bulk of the gas ; or it may be rarfiedd and condensed through a very extensive range , and the effect of this kind of change upon it ascertained independent of teinperature or the presence of any other substance .
Solids and liquids do not admit of these mnethods of exarmination , and do not theirefoare assist in the determination of the zero-point and of the true distinction of magnetic and diamagnetic bodies in the same manner that the gases do .
2779 .
It appeared to me that if a gaseous body were magnetic , then its magnetic properties ought to be diminished in proportion as it was rarefied , i. e. that equal volumes of such a gas at different pressures ought to be more magnetic , as they are denser ; on the other hand , that if a gas were diamagnetic , rarefaction ought to diminish its diamagnetic character , until , when reduced to the condition of a vacuum , it should disappear .
In other words , if two opposed portions of the same magnetic gas , one rarer than the other , were subjected at once to the magnetic force , the denser ought to approach the axial line , or be drawn into the place of most intense action ; whereas if two similarly opposed portions of a diamagnetic gas were subjected to the magnetic action , the more expanded or rarer gas ought to go inwards to the place of strongest action .
2780 .
Several bulbs of oxygen ( fig. 8 ) , similar in arrangemenet to those Fig already described ( 2772 .
) , and very nearly alike in size , were prepared and hermetically sealed , after that the quantity of gas within them had been reduced to a certain degree by the air-pump .
The first contained the gas at the pressure of one atmosphere ; the second had the gas at half an atmosphere , or 15 inches of mercury ; the third contained gas at the pressure of 10 inches of nercury ; and the fourth , after being filled with oxygen , was reduced to as good a vacuum as an excellent air-pump could effect .
When the first of these was compared with the other three , the effect was most striking ; opposed to the half atmosphere , it went towards the axis , driving the expanded portion away ; when in relation to the onethird atmosphere , it went inwards or axially with still more power ; and when opposed to the oxygen vacuum , it took its place as close to the iron core as in the former case , when contrasted withi nitrogen ( 2774 .
) ; and it was manifest that the diamagnetic poweri of the glass tube which enclosed it ( 2775 .
) , was the only thing which prevented the oxygen fromp pressing against the iron core occupying the centre of the magnetic field .
2781 .
On experimenting with the other tubes exactly the same result was obtained .
Thus the tube with one-third of an atmosphere , in association with the vacuum tube , went inwards , driving the other outwa rds , i. e. it was more magnetic than the vacuumn ; but in association with the one-half atmosphere tube it went outwards , whilst the denser gas passed inwards .
Any one of the tubes , if associated with another having a rarer atmosphere , passed inwards or magnetically , whilst if associated with others having denser atamospheres it passed outwards , being driven off by the supetior magnetic force of the denser g'as .
As far as I could ascertain in these preliminary forms of experiment , the tendency inwards or axially appeared to be in proportion to the density of the gas ; but the exact measuremirrent of these forces will be givet hereafter .
2782 .
Th us oxygen appears to be a very magnetic substance , for it passes axially , or from weaker to stronger places of force , with considerable power ; ta conclusion in accordance with the result of former observations* .
Moreover it passes more powerfully when dense than wxilen rare , its tendency inwards being apparently in proportion to its density .
HIence , as the oxygen is removed , the magnetic force disappears with it , until when a vacuuml is obtained , little or no trace of attraction or inward force remains .
No doubt it may be said that dense oxygen is less diamagnetic than rare oxygen , or a vacuum .
This however would imply , that the acting force of a substance , as the oxygen , could increase in proportion as the quantity of the substance diminished , which is not , I think , a philosophical assumption ; and besides that , other reasons will soon appear to show that the magnetic condition which disappears as the oxygen is removed , belongs to , and is dependent upon that substance , and that oxygen is therefore a truly magnetic body .
2783 .
Nitrogen , being the other and larger part of the atmosphere , was then subjected to experiment , and three tubes , one containing the gas at a pressure of 30 inches of mercury , another with the gas at the pressure of 15 inches , and the third reduced as nearly as it could be to a vacuum , were prepared ( 2780 .
) .
When these were compared one with another in the magnetic field , they were found to be so nearly alike as not to be distinguishable from each other , i. e. they remained equidistant from the magnetic axis .
I do not mean to imply that nitrogen at these different pressures is absolutely the same bulk for bulk ( an instrument now under construction will enable me hereafter to compare and measure with infinitely greater accuracy , and to ascertain these points ) ; but as compared with oxygen , the great and extraordinary differences produced by rarefaction there , have no corresponding differences here .
If there are any , they are insensible at present , and may , for the chief purpose of this paper and the determination of the zero-point between magnetics and diamagnetics , be taken as nothing .
2784 .
Nitrogen therefore appears to be neither magnetic nor diamagnetic ; if it were either , it could not bat fall in its specific condition as it was rarefied ; as it is , it is equivalent to a vacuum .
If a given space be considered as a vacuum , into which oxygen or nitrogen is to be gradually introduced , as oxygen is added the space becomes more and more magnetic , i. e. more competent to admit of the kind of action distinguished by that word ; but the corresponding gradual addition of nitrogen to an empty space produces no effect of that kind , or the contrary , and the nitrogen is therefore neither magnetic nor diamagnetic , but like space itself .
2785 .
As yet I have found no gas , which , being on the diamagnetic side of zero , can at all compare with oxygen in the range of effect produced by rarefaction .
For the present , I may mention olefiant gas and cyanogen as substances which appear to proceed inwards , or towards the axial line , as they are more rarefied .
They are therefore not merely at zero , but are in opposition to oxygen and are diamagnetic bodies .
But if we want a body that is strongly and undeniably diarnagnetic , and which , being added to or introduced into space , will make it diamagnetic , as oxygen renders it magnetic , then flint glass or phosphorus presents us with such a substance .
When these bodies are made into forms similar to the volumes of nitrogen , or the vacua in size and shape , and are compared with them on the torsion balance , they pass outwards with much force ; and it is probably the great diamagnetic force of the glass of the tubes that prevents the effect of rarefaction from being more evident in olefiant and other gases .
2786 .
When a tube has been filled with a particular gas , then exhausted as much as possible , and sealed up hermetically , it may be considered as enclosing what is commonly called a vacuum .
I have prepared many such vacua , and may be permitted to distinguish them by the name of the gas , traces of which still remain .
In comparing these vacua in the magnetic field ( 2773 .
) , they appeared to me to be in all respects alike ; the oxygen vacuum was not more magnetic than the hydrogen , nitrogen , or olefiant vacuum .
Their differences , if any , were far smaller than the differences which could be produced by the variations of size and other conditions of the glass bulbs , and can only be Inade manifest by the means hereafter to be used ( 2783 .
) ; and I am fully persuaded that they will ultimately be nearly alike , ranging close up to and about a perfect vacuum .
2787 .
Before determining the place of zero amongst magnetic and diamagnetic bodies , we have to consider the true character and relation of space free from any material substance .
Though one cannot procure a space perfectly free from matter , one can make a close approximation to it in a carefully prepared Torricellian vacuum .
Perhaps it is hardly necessary for me to ' state , that I find both iron and bismuth in such vacua perfectly obedient to the magnet .
From such experiments , and also from general observations and knowledge , it seems manifest that the lines of magnetic force ( 2149 .
) can traverse pure space , just as gravitating force does , and as static electrical forces do ( 1616 .
) ; and therefore space has a magnetic relation of its own , and one that we shall probably find hereafter to be of the utmost importance in natural phenomena .
But this character of space is not of the same kind as that which , in relation to matter , we endeavour to express by the terms magnetic and diamagnetic .
To confuse them together would be to confound space with matter , and to trouble all the conceptions by which we endeavour to understand and work out a progressively clearer view of the mode of action and laws of natural forces .
It would be as if , in gravitation or electric forces ( 1613 .
) , one were to confound the particles acting on each other with the space across which they are acting , and would , I think , shut the door to advancement .
Mere space cannot act as matter acts , even though the utmost latitude be allowed to the hypothesis of an ether ; and admitting that hypothesis , it would be a large additional assumption to suppose that the lines of magnetic force are vibrations carried on by it ( 2591 .
) ; whilst as yet , we have no proof or indication that time is required for their propagation , or in what respect they may in general character assimilate to , or differ from , the respective lines of gravitating , luminiferous , or electric forces .
2788 .
Neither can space be supposed to have those circular currents round points diffused through it , which AMPERE'S theory assumes to exist around the particles of ordinary magnetic matter , and which I had for a moment supposed might exist in the contrary direction round the particles of diamagnetic matter ( 2429 .
2640 .
&amp;c. ) .
The imagination , restrained by philosophical considerations , fails to find anything in pure space about which the currents could circulate , or to which they could by any association be attached ; and the difficulty , if already not immeasurable , would be still greater to those , if there be any , who , assuming that magnetic and diamagnetic bodies are alike in nature , mrust assiume that there are like currents in both ; for it does not seem possible to add ( for instance ) phosphorus having such a magnetic constitution to space , supposed to be of a similar constitution , and yet to have as a result a diminution of the magnetic powers of the space .
2789 .
As space therefore comports itself independently of matter , and after another manner , the different varieties of matter must , in relation to their respective qualities , be considered amongst themselves .
Those which produce no effect when added to space , appear to me to be neutral or to stand at zero .
Those which bring with them an effect of one kind will be on the one side of zero , and those which produce an effect of the contrary kind will be on the other side of zero ; by this division they constitute the two subdivisions of magnetic and diamagnetic bodies .
The law which I formerly ventured to give ( 2267 .
2418 .
) , still expresses accurately their relations ; for in an absolute vacuum or free space , a magnetic body tends from weaker to stronger places of magnetic action , and a diamagnetic body under similar conditions from stronger to weaker places of action .
2790 .
Now that the true zero is obtained , and the great variety of material substances satisfactorily divided into two general classes , it appears to me that we want another name for the magnetic class , that we may avoid confusion .
The word magnetic ought to be general , and include all the phenomena and effects produced by the power .
But then a word for the subdivision , opposed to the diamagnetic class , is necessary .
As the language of this branch of science may soon require general and careful changes , I , assisted by a kind friend , have thought that a word not selected with particular care might be provisionally useful ; and as the magnetism of iron , nickel and cobalt , when in the magnetic field , is like that of the earth as a whole , so that when rendered active they place themselves parallel to its axis or lines of magnetic force , I have supposed that they and their similars ( including oxygen now ) might be called paramagnetic bodies , giving the following division : Magetic fParamagnetic .
Dagnet iamagnetic .
If the attempt to facilitate expression be not accepted , I hope it will be excused .
2791 .
From the presence of oxygen in the air , the latter is , as a whole , a magnetic medium of no small power .
Hence all the comparative experiments on the diamagnetic condition of other gases , made by passing streams of them through it and through each other* , require a correction , which occasionally may place some of these bodies on the paramagnetic side of zero .
Even solid and fluid substances may be thus affected ; and the preliminary list , which I formerly gave ( 2424 .
) , will need alteration in this respect .
I hope soon however to have the means of ascertaining , not only the place of bodies , but also their relative degrees of force , at the same and at different temperatures , with a degree of accuracy that will serve great purposes in the further development of this branch of science .
2792 .
Amongst the gases hitherto examined there is nothing that compares with oxygen .
The following are comparatively indifferent by the side of it:-chlorine and bromine vapour , cyanogen , nitrogen , hydrogen , carbonic acid , carbonic oxide , olefiant gas , nitrous oxide , nitric oxide , nitrous acid vapour , muriatic acid , sulphurous acid , hydriodic acid , ammonia , sulphuretted hydrogen , coal-gas , ether vapour and sulphuret of carbon vapour ; for though some , as olefiant and cyanogen gases , appear to be a little diamagnetic , and others , as nitrous oxide and nitric oxide , are magnetic , yet their effects disappear in comparison with the results produced by oxygen .
2793 .
I hope to give the correct expression of the paramagnetic force of oxygen ( 2783 .
) hereafter , in the meantime I am tempted to give one or two rough illustrations of its degree in this place , in addition to the former one ( 2774 .
) .
The capacity of the oxygen bulb , containing one atmosphere , is not quite 0,34 of a cubic inch , and the weight therefore of the oxygen within 0*117 of a grain .
I endeavoured to compare this quantity in the first place with soft iron , and therefore attached a portion of that metal , having one-tenth of this weight or 0*012 of a grain , to a fine platina wire fixed into one end of a vessel , corresponding in size to that containing the oxygen , so as to bring the iron into the middle , and then the bulb was exhlausted and hermetically sealed .
Being now opposed to the oxygen tube in the magnetic field , it was found , as expected , far to surpass the oxygen in magnetic power .
As it was inconvenient further to reduce the iron or to enlarge the oxygen , another magnetic substance was employed for the comparison .
2794 .
One hundred grains of clean , good , crystallized protosulphate of iron were dissolved in distilled water , and diluted until a glass bulb , of nearly the same size as the oxygen bulb when filled with the solution , was equal to the oxygen bulb in force , and stood equidistant from the axial line , as far as I could judge by the present modes of observation .
When the solution had this strength , it occupied the bulk of 17cubic inches .
As the bulk of the oxygen is only 0 34 of a cubic inch ( 2793 .
) , that volume of this solution would contain very nearly two grains of crystallized sulphate of iron , equivalent to 0'4 of a grain of metallic iron ; so that , bulk for bulk , oxygen is equally magnetic with a solution of sulphate of iron in water containing seventeen times the weight of the oxygen in crystallized protosulphate of iron , or 3*4 times its weight of metallic iron in that state of combination .
2795 .
Again , the oxygen tubes , containing respectively one atmosphere and a vacuum ( 2780 .
) , were adjusted about an inch apart , and placed on each side of the magnetic axis , and the force of the magnet developed .
The oxygen of course approached the magnetic axis , and the vacuum passed equatorially .
A slender glass filament , about 6 inches in length , had been drawr out at the lamp and fixed to a foot ; and the end of this filament was then employed to press back the oxygen tube into its E2 27 original place , and render it equidistant from the magnetic axis with the vacuum tube .
In this position the two tubes would , as respects the glass , neutralize each other ( 2775 .
) ; and considering the vacuum as zero , the oxygen alone may be considered as active , and the force required to hold it out may be looked upon as the force with which the oxygen , at that distance of half an inch , tended to go to the magnetic axis .
The deflection of the glass filament or spring , at the place where the oxygen tube was held by it , was rather more than 1 inch from its position when relieved from the pressure of the tube .
Being taken away , it was set up in the horizontal position ( after being turned 90 ?
on its axis , so that the flexure might be in the same direction , relative to the filament , as before ) ; and the position of the end being marked , weights were put on it at the place of former contact with the oxygen tube , until they produced the same amount of deflection as before .
It required rather more than the tenth of a grain to produce this effect ; and this , considering that the whole oxygen only weighed 0 117 of a grain , and that no part of it was nearer than half an inch , whilst the average distance of the mass was above an inch from the magnetic axis , gives a high expression for the magnetic power .
2796 .
It is hardly necessary for me to say here that this oxygen cannot exist in the atmosphere , exerting such a remarkable and high amount of magnetic force , without having a most important influence on the disposition of the magnetism of the earth as a planet , especially if it be remembered that its magnetic condition is greatly altered by variations in its density ( 2781 .
) and by variations in its temperaturex .
I think I see here the real cause of many of the variations of that force , which have been , and are now , so carefully watched on different parts of the surface of the globe .
The daily variation and the annual variation both seem likely to come under it ; also very many of the irregular continual variations which the photographic process of record renders so beautifully manifest .
If such expectations be confirmed , and the influence of the atmosphere be found able to produce results like these , then we shall probably find a new relation between the aurora borealis and the magnetism of the earth , namely , a relation established , more or less , through the air itself in connexion with the space above it ; and even magnetic relations and variations which are not as yet suspected , may be suggested and rendered manifest and measurable , in the further development of what 1 will venture to call Atmospheric Magnetism.(2847 .
&amp;c. ) .
I may be over-sanguine in these expectations , but as yet I am sustained in them by the apparent reality , simplicity and sufficiency of the cause assumed , as it at present appears to my mind .
As soon as I have sufficiently submitted these views to a close consideration and the test of accordance with observation , and where applicable with experiments also , I will do myself the honour to bring them before the Royal Society .
* Philosophical Magazine , 1847 , vol. xxxi .
p. 417 .
Royal Institution , August 2 , 1850 .

