XIV .
On the anomalous magnetic action of hot iron between the white and blood-red heat .
By PETER BARLOW , Esq. of the Royal Military Academy .
Communicated by Major THOMAS COLBY , of the Royal Engineers , F. R. S. Read January 24 , 1822 .
IN consequence of certain theoretical results relative to the magnetic action of iron , obtained by Mr. CHARLES BONNYCASTLE , I was desirous of ascertaining the relative attraction which different species of iron and steel had for the magnet ; and with this view I procured two bars of each of the following descriptions of metal , 24 inches in length , and i inch and a quarter square , which being placed successively in the direction of the dip , at a certain distance from the compass , the disturbance occasioned by each was carefully noted ; first with one end upwards , and then with the other ; and assuming the tangents of the angles as the measure of the disturbing power , I obtained the following specific results , viz. Mag. Pow .
Mag. Pow .
Malleable iron 1oo Shear steel soft 66 Cast iron 48 --hard -53 Blistered steel soft 67 Cast steel soft 74 ------hard 53 -----hard 49 As it was obvious from these experiments , that the softer the iron the greater was its power , and the contrary , I was desirous of determining how nearly these different kinds of metal would approximate towards each other in their magnetic action , when rendered perfectly soft by being heated in a furnace .
With this view , bars of equal size of cast iron , malleable iron , shear steel , &amp;c. were rendered white hot , and being placed in the direction of the dip , as before , their powers , as was anticipated , agreed nearly with each other ; but still the cast iron , which was weakest while the metal was cold , exceeded a little in power all the others when hot , and the malleable iron which had the greatest power cold , had the least when hot ; but the difference was not very great , and might probably arise from some accidental circumstance .
While carrying on these experiments , it had been observed , both by Mr. BONNYCASTLE and myself , that between the white heat of the metal , when all magnetic action was lost , and the blood-red heat , at which it was the strongest , there was an intermediate state in which the iron attracted the needle the contrary way to what it did when it was cold , viz. if the bar and compass were so situated that the north end of the needle was drawn towards it when cold , the south end was attracted during the interval above alluded to , or while the iron was passing through the shades of colour denoted by the workman the bright red and red heat .
As this anomalous action had never before been noticed , I was desirous of examining it a little more particularly , and with the assistance of Mr. BONNYCASTLE , the following series of experiments were performed , wholly directed to this inquiry .
Before entering upon the detail , however , it may not be amiss to notice those results which have hitherto been obtained relative to the magnetic action of heated iron ; and to show how the contradictory statements , that we find on the subject , may be reconciled with each other .
For example : we find it stated in NEWTON)S optics , that red hot iron has no magnetic property ; while Father KIRCHER asserts , that the magnet will attract red hot iron as well as cold , ( " ( de Magnete " lib. i ) .
Again , in Vol. XVIII .
No. , 914 .
Phil. Trans. it is stated , that hot iron not only has an attraction for the magnet , but that its power is increased by the heat ; and these assertions have been repeated by many other authors , each supposing that his results were at variance with the other .
M , CAVALLO seems to have been the first writer , who was fully aware that these contradictory statements arose from the observations being made with the iron at different degrees of heat .
He found , that although iron at the red heat had a greater power over the magnet than when cold , yet , at the white heat , it had a less ; but he says he is still unable to decide , whether all the magnetic power is entirely lost at the white heat .
( CAVALLO on Magnetism , p. 312 .
) More recent experiments on this subject are also recorded in Vol. IX .
Part I. of the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , by WILLIAM SCORESBY , Esq. But even here it does not appear that this Gentleman was aware of the total loss of power at a certain temperature ; for he observes , ( after showing that iron red hot has a greater power than when cold ) " The contrary to this has , I think , been generally asserted : " from which it would seem , that he had not heated his iron to a sufficient degree to detect the non-action at the white heat .
Notwithstanding therefore all the experiments that have been made , it is pretty evident from the above remarks , that considerable uncertainty still hangs over the results ; arising , without doubt , from the want of proper conveniences for heating bars of sufficient size , and to a proper degree of intensity , 1ig whereby one author has noticed one fact , and another a different one , without being aware how much depended upon a very slight change in the temperature of the iron .
On these grounds therefore it is presumed , that the following experiments would be entitled to some notice , as they serve to reconcile all these apparently contradictory statements ; but the principal reason which has induced me to lay them before the Royal Society is , the anomalous action which they have been the means of discovering , while the iron passes through the shades of bright red and red , already alluded to in the preceding part of this paper , and which , to the best of iry knowledge , has never been noticed by any author .
Experiments on the anomalous attraction of heated iron which takes place while the metal retains the bright red and red heat .
I have already observed , that this anomalous action was noticed while we were pursuing other experiments , and that those which follow , were wholly directed to an examination of these irregularities .
In our first experiment , the compass was placed nearly west of the bar , rather below its upper extremity , and distant from it about 6|inches .
At the white heat the attraction of the iron was lost ; and at the blood red heat we had 70 ?
of deviation in the needle ; but that intermediate action we were searching after did not appear ; at least it was by no means so obvious as we had noticed it in our preceding experiments .
The position of the bar and compass was not however quite the same as before ; we therefore raised the support of the bar about 4 inches , by which means its upper extremity was the same height above the compass , and on repeating the experiment with the bar thus placed , we obtained an obvious deviation of the south end of the needle towards the iron of 4- ?
, which remained fixed about two minutes .
Having gained this by raising the bar 4 inches , we now raised it 6 inches , and on applying it in this place , we obtained a deviation of lo- ?
, which remained fixed about the same time as before ; when the needle suddenly yielded to the natural magnetic power of the iron , and obtained almost instantaneously a deviation of 81 ?
the opposite way .
It was thus rendered obvious , that the quantity of negative attraction at the red heat , depended upon the height or depth of the centre of the bar from the compass ; and as the natural effect of the cold iron was changed by placing the compass below the centre of the bar , the question which naturally suggested itself was , will the negative attraction also change ?
To decide this point , we lowered our compass to within 6 inches of the bottom of the bar ; in which position the cold iron necessarily attracted the south end of the needle , and produced a deviation of 21 ? .
Upon heating the bar , we found , as usual , all its power upon the needle cease at the white heat ; but as this subsided into the bright red , the negative attraction began to manifest itself , and it soon amounted to lo- ?
; the north end of the needle being attracted towards the iron .
Here it remained stationary a short time , and then gradually returned , first due north , and ultimately to 700 30 ' on the opposite side .
Having made these preliminary experiments , I was anxious to undertake a regular series , hoping by this means to be able to reduce this species of action to some fixed principle ; for it will have been observed , from what is stated above , that the negative attraction appeared to increase from each extremity of the bar towards its middle ; whereas the posi- .
tive or natural action of the iron decreases in the like cases , and ( passing through zero in the plane of no attraction ) has its quality of attraction different when placed towards the upper or lower extremity of the bar .
The negative attraction has also the same change of character in the upper and lower extremity of the bar ; but as it increases towards the middle , it appeared to pass through a maximum to arrive at that change , which seemed wholly inexplicable ; and I must acknowledge that , after all the experiments I have made , it still remains so .
It is at all events certain , that the least change of position of the compass when near the centre of the bar , changes altogether the quantity and quality of this negative action .
In the experiments detailed in the following table , I used four diff-rent bars , each s5 inches long , and it inch square ; two of them of cast iron , denoted in the first column by C. B , No. ; C. B , No. s ; and two of malleable iron , denoted by M. B , No. i , and M. B , No. s. I had also two other bars , one of cast and one of malleable iron , of the same dimensions , which were not heated , but kept as standards for determining the quantity:of cold attraction , as this could not safely be done by the bars used in the experiments after being so repeatedly heated .
The time employed in eac ' ) experiment was about a quarter of an hour : the white heat commonly remailed about 3 minutes , when the negative attraction commenced ; this lasted about two minutes more , when the usual attraction took place : this sometimes arrived at its maximum very rapidly , but at others it proceeded increasing very gradually ; and commonly within the time stated above , the needle had been found perfectly stationary .
In the table , to avoid confusion , that attraction which took place according to the known laws of cold iron is marked plus , whichever end of the needle approached the iron , and the opposite attraction is marked minus .
For example , when the compass is above the centre of the bar , the north end of the needle should be drawn towards the iron , but when the conpass is below the centre , the south end should approach the iron ; these therefore are both marked plus , and the contrary attraction at the red heat is marked minus .
1sg TABLE , Showing the effect of iron on the compass needle at different degrees of heat .
Height or lDistanceEffect Description of depth of centre , of bar Position of Et Effec t Red Effect Blood MARK comsbar .
Effect Cold .
White bar .
of bar from i from compass .
Heat.ffecteat red Heat .
REMARKS .
compass .
compass ' Inch .
Inch .
O , o/ 'oi o , I C.B ... N o. I6.0 S. 8o W. +ooo 17 ooo South end drawn to the bar at red heat .
2 M.B.No.2 .
4.5 below .
6.o ditto .
+30 o ditto .
oo +45 o3 " C.B. No. 2 .
4.5 below .
6.o0 ditto .
+18 o ditto .
o +49 o4 M.B. No. .
ditto .
ditto .
63o d itto .
+29 itto .
12 o +44 5 ditto .
3 below .
6.o bs ditto .
No +52 oN di ?
to ?
I ?
Ijbelw{ .
So fN dThis bar being left standing , it attracted ditto.,3 the same three days after .
6 ditto .
4.5 below 6.oN So 8 W. ditto .
ditto .
1 Z30 +70 0 -{ Tlt^ Shes^ ' bee4 it attractedtredyafr 7 ditto .
4.5 above .
6.o S. 8o0 W. ditto , ditto .
12 30 +30 o8 ditto .
' ditt .
6.o dito .
ditto .
'o .
ditto .
, oo -25 o The needle suspected to touch the box .
9 ditto. .
ditto .
6.o ditto .
ditto .
ditto .
90 +-30 o 10 ditto .
I.o above .
6.o ditto , ditto .
ditto .
-15 0 +4 o II 1M.B .
No.z .
2..5 below , 8 .
'N .
80 W. +29 30 ditto .
oo +37 30 Observed at the same time with two comI12 ditto .
ditto .
8.5 ; N. 8o E. -3 o ditto .
o 041 o passes .
3 'C .
B. No. xii2.5 below.8.5 N. o8 W. -6 oditto .
'oo 42 3oI io .
14 ditto .
ditto .
8.5 N. 80 E. +I5 30 ditto .
o 0 , +47 30 15 M.B.No.z .
9.o below .
8.5 N. 8oW .
+28 30 ditto .
1o +39 30 itto .
16 ditto .
i ditto .
8.5 N. 80 E. -29 30 ditto .
30 +42 o0 17 C.B. No. i. 9.0 below .
8.5 N. 80 W. + 15 45 ditto .
i 30 45 0 Ditto .
i8 ditto .
ditto .
7 8.5 N.80 .
+16 o'ditto .
_ 30 49 o0 I9 M.B.No.z .
6.o below .
8 .
'N .
80 W. +25 o ditto .
3o +-32 30 Ditto 20 ditto .
ditto .
8.5 N. 8o E. +26 o ditto .
3 30 +33 0 z1 IC. B. No. 1 .
6.0 below .
8.5N .
80 W. -+1 30 ditto.3 30 +36 30 Ditto .
z22 ditto .
ditto .
8.5 N. 8o E. +-13 o ditto .
; Notobs .
+36 30 J 23:M.B.No ... 3.0 below .
6.o.'S 8o E. +5 o ditto .
21 30 Nt obs .
Ditto .
24 ditto .
ditto .
6.o N. 45 W. Not obs .
ditto .
25 30 +25 30 25 M.B. No. i. o.o 6.o ditto .
oo ditto .
oooo North end drawn to the bar at red heat .
26 M.B. No. 2 .
' 1.o above .
5.3 'N .
60 W. +2 o ' ditto .
4 30 +5 30 Both attractions very gradual .
27 M.B. No. 1 .
ditto .
53 ditto .
'Not obs .
ditto .
12 30 +5 30 assed suddely to 12 , but returned 27 " 1 , , immediately .
28 M.B.No .
2 .
9.0 above .
6.o IN .
85 E. +47 30 ditto .
2 30 -6o o Attractions gradual .
29 1M .
B. No. i. ditto .
6.o ditto .
+47 30 ditto .
, _ 2 30 +60 o Ditto .
30 M.B. No.2 .
&lt; l.o below .
5.5 N. 45 W. Not obs .
ditto .
55 o55 Negative attraction rather sudden .
31 M.B.No .
I.4.5 above .
' 7.0o N. 75 E. ditto .
ditto .
2 30 -33 30 Motion of needle very slow .
32 M.B. No. 2..7 below .
, 5.5 N. 45 W. ' ditto . !
ditto .
+ 1oo o ' + 13 30 ioo ?
very sudden , returned immediately .
33 M.B. No. i..7 above .
5.5 ditto , ditto .
ditto .
26 o -13 30 Both attractions gradual .
34 M.B. No.2 1.7 above .
5.5 ditto , ditto .
ditto .
+3o0+ 13 30 The same as No. 32 ; both anomalous .
35 M.B. No. i. 4.5 above .
6.o N. 55 E. ditto .
ditto .
53 +35 30 'Attractions very gradual .
36 M.B. No. 2 .
ditto .
6.o ditto .
ditto .
ditto .
o0 +35 30 37 M.B. No. I. o.0 4 West .
+3 30 ditto .
-_ oc8o Motion regular , but quick .
38 M.B.No .
2 .
o.o 4.7 North .
oo ditto .
oooo No motion in the needle .
It should be observed , that all the above experiments were made with the bars inclined in the direction of the dipping needle , or nearly in that direction , and it will be seen that the negative attraction was the greatest where the natural attraction was the least ; that is , opposite the middle of the bar , or in the plane of no attraction .
I was led , therefore , to make a few experiments with the bar inclined at right angles to its former position , but the results were by no means so strongly marked as in the preceding experiments : we always found a certain quantity of negative attraction , but it was very inconsiderable , never amounting to more than 1 ? .
I also made one experiment with an iron 241b .
ball , but the heat was too intense to make any very accurate observation .
The numbers obtained were Cold attraction +13 ?
o3 ' .
White heat o ?
o ' .
Red heat -3 ? ?
30 ' .
Blood-red heat +-19 30o ' It may be proper also to state , that , being doubtful how far the heat itself , independent of the iron , might be the cause of the anomalous action above described , I procured two copper bolts of rather larger dimensions than my iron bars , and had them heated to the greatest degree that metal would bear ; but on applying them to the compass , no motion whatever could be discovered in the needle .
The only probable explanation which I can offer by way of accounting for these anomalies , is , that the iron cooling faster towards its extremities than towards its centre , a part of the bar will become magnetic before the other part , and thereby cause a different species of attraction ; but I must acknowledge , that this will not satisfactorily explain all the observed 125 ec .
phenomena .
The results , however , are stated precisely as they were noted during the experiments , and others more competent than myself will probably be able to deduce the theory of them .

