XVIII .
On the secondary deflections produced in a magnetized needle by an iron shell , in consequence of an unequal distribution of magnetism in its two branches .
First noticed by Captain J. P. WILSON , of the Honourable East India Company 's Ship Hythe .
By PETER BARLOW , Esq. F. R. S. Mem. Imp .
Sc. Petrop .
Read May 17 , 18e7 .
CAPTAIN WILSON , in a very early stage of my magnetic experiments , took considerable interest , not only in their application to the purposes of navigation , but in the fundamental laws on which that application was founded ; and in pursuit of his own particular views he undertook , in his last voyage , to decide , by actual experiment , some of the points which were not in the beginning universally admitted ; amongst which one of the most important , was that relating to the change of position of the ideal magnetic sphere which I had imagined for the purpose of magnetical reference , and for the convenience of reducing the laws of action to their most simple and general form .
According to the results which I had obtained , it was presumed , but not confidently asserted , .
( see page 65 , ist edition " Essay on Magnetic Attractions " ) that this sphere , in different parts of the world , would take up different positions with regard to the horizon , following in all cases the changes of position of the dipping needle .
Captain WILsoN proposed to repeat these experiments at different places , where he might have an opportunity , on his outward and homeward voyages ; viz. at It , Helena , Bengal , and in China ; and he had the satisfaction of finding the sphere nearly inverted in his different experiments , the law in all cases strictly following those which had been predicted from my first series of results .
The confirmation however of this fact is now of but secondary interest , because it has been demonstrated , and admitted by all who have taken any part in the enquiry ; I shall therefore pass over these experiments , and mention only the curious observations alluded to in the title of this Paper .
The apparatus which Captain WILSON employed was exactly similar to that which I made use of in Woolwich , viz. a large and strong round table with a hole in the centre , and a is-inch mortar shell , with a contrivance for raising and lowering the latter through the centre hole .
It appears that while in China , endeavouring to trace out the magnetic equator to the shell , which I have in my Essay called the circle of no attraction , or of no deviation , he found , that although in this circle no deviation was observed with the needle in its natural state , yet , if one end of the needle ( for example the south ) was slightly touched with the south end of a magnet , a considerable deviation followed , and on repeating the experiments in different positions on the magnetic sphere , different results were obtained ; the end of the needle , whose magnetism had been deteriorated , in some cases approaching , and in others receding from the centre of the ball .
Captain WILSON having erected this apparatus at his house in town , I spent some time with him and Captain BEAUFORT , R , N. F. R. S. in examining and repeating these curious experiments , but without being able at that time to reduce them to uniform laws .
From the experiments we did make , it appeared , however , that if the ball was raised just above the plane of the table , and the compass carried round the table , proceeding , for example , from the north towards the east or west , the deteriorated branch of the needle receded from the ball ; and this happened also beyond the cast and west points to a certain azimuth , after which the deteriorated branch approached the ball .
Precisely the same occurred when the ball was placed just below the table , beginning however now at the south instead of the north .
The points of change being in this case between the north and east or west point , and in the former between the south and east or west point .
If the ball was placed exactly with its horizontal section in the plane of the table , the law appeared still more anomalous ; but in carrying the compass round the ball in the magnetic equator , or plane of no deviation , the deteriorated branch in all cases approached the ball .
In page 55 of the first edition of my essay , I have stated that some of the discrepancies I found between the observed and computed deviations , were probably due to an unequal distribution of magnetism in the two branches of the needle ; and there could be no doubt that this was actually the case in the present instance ; but I had no idea of the great amount of error to which my first observations might have been subject , had this inequality of magnetism been greater than it was .
In the experiments above referred to , the error amounted to 20 , 3 ?
, and even 5 ?
and upwards ; but as the actual amount depended principally upon the extent of deterioration ( which we had no means of measuring ) I have not attempted to give numerical results .
After attentively considering Captain WILsoN 's experiments , and repeating some of them on my original apparatus at Woolwich , aided also by the explanation I had formed in my own mind as to the cause of these apparent anomalies , I was at length enabled to reduce the several results to a sort of general law , which may be thus enunciated .
We may distinguish the following several cases of deviation and magnetic action between a magnetized needle and an iron ball or shell .
i. The needle may be placed in ally part of the magnetic meridian of such a'ball ; in which case there is no deviation in the needle ; nor is there any secondary deviation by an : unequal distribution of magnetism in its two branches .
9 .
The needle may be placed any where in the magnetic equator of the ball .
In this case , whichever end of the needle has its magnetism deteriorated , that end will approach the ball , and the same obtains generally while the poles of the needle are in opposite hemispheres of the ball .
3 .
Generally , in other positions one branch of the needle will be nearer to the centre of the ball than the other ; then , if the near end has its magnetism deteriorated , the needle will approach its natural meridian , but if the more distant end be deteriorated , the needle will be more deflected , or recede from the meridian .
And this happens whether the near end lies between the ball and meridian , or the meridian between it and the ball .
These however must be considered rather as general than as particular descriptions of the latter cases , because as the 279 needle approaches those points in which its direction is at right angles to the line joining its pivot and the centre of the ball ( which are the points of change alluded to in the preceding experiments ) the secondary deflections are small and somewhat equivocal , the precise point of change seeming to have a reference , not to position only , but also to the amount of deterioration produced in the needle .
These curious results are important for two reasons ; first , as showing the necessity , in making numerical magnetic experiments , of being very particular as to the most perfect uniformity in the construction of the needles employed , as well as in the communication of magnetism to them ; and as it is probable that this uniformity can never be completely attained , it will enable us to account for some of those small irregularities , which will attend the most careful experiments , without attributing them to errors of observation or adjustment Secondly , these results are interesting , as amounting almost to a demonstration of the truth of that theory of magnetism , so very generally , but not universally admitted , viz. " that iron becomes magnetic by induction from the earth .
" In the first edition of my Essay , I was led by the apparent simplicity of the hypothesis , to adopt a particular view of this subject , which had been pointed out to me , and which referred the deflection of the needle to the simple central attraction of the ball on its two opposite extremities ; and although , from various analogies and other circumstances , I saw reason to change my opinion on the subject in the second edition , and to adopt the induction hypothesis , yet I never could contrive a cross experiment to decide positively between the two theories ; for every experiment I could imagine , and every result I could ever obtain , which might be explained on one of those principles , could be as easily illustrated by the other .
The present order of secondary deflections , however , is quite decisive of the point in question , these being all perfectly consistent with the one , and generally inconsistent with the other hypothesis .
The first of the cases pointed out above , viz. when the needle is in the magnetic meridian of the ball , requires no illustration ; we may pass therefore to the second , in which the needle is supposed to be placed in the magnetic equator .
Now here , on the one hypothesis , the equilibrium of the needle in its natural meridian is attributed to an equal and opposite repulsive power on its two branches , these being each found respectively in that hemisphere of the ball of the same name with itself , and are each therefore under repulsion .
Consequently , if any deterioration takes place in either branch , that branch will be less repelled , and will therefore approach the ball .
On the other hypothesis , as no repulsion is admitted , the equilibrium must be due to equal and opposite attractions ; consequently , the effect of deteriorating either branch would be , that that branch would recede from the ball , which is contrary to observation ; and the same applies generally while the poles of the needle are in opposite hemispheres of the ball .
In the third case , the explanation is nearly as simple ; for example : the branch of the needle nearest the centre of the ball will be the most powerfully acted upon ; or , which is the same , the centre of all the actions on the needle will be in that branch ; if , therefore , that branch be found between the ball and the meridian , the attractive powers prevail over the repulsive ; but if the meridian be found between the ball and the nearest branch of the needle , then the deflection is due to an excess of the repulsive forces over the attractive .
In the first case , by deteriorating the near branch , we diminish the attractive forces , and in the other case , the repulsive ; so that in both instances the needle ought to approach the meridian ; as is found to be the case .
But by deteriorating the other , that is the most distant branch , we increase the preponderance of attractive power in the one case , and the repulsive in the other , and , consequently , the needle will be more deflected , or recede farther from the meridian .
With respect to the rather uncertain character of the secondary deflections near the points of change , the explanation appears to me to rest on this : that , admitting the attractive and repulsive principle , the centre of attraction and of repulsion may fall both in the same branch of the needle , or in opposite branches .
In the one case , the needle is deflected by only the difference of the two forces , and in the other , by their sum .
And it is probable that in or near the points of change , the degree of deterioration may produce this uncertain result , by changing these centres from one branch to the other , according to the intensity of the deteriorating power .
After all , however , it will not be expected that the results due to such a complex system of forces can be illustrated in common language , since in their more uniform state , they require the aid of the most powerful analysis to reduce them to determinate laws .
It is sufficient for the present purpose to have shown , that the order of secondary deflections , discovered by Captain WILSON , are , in a general point of view , consistent with that hypothesis , which supposes the magnetism of iron to be due to induction from the earth , and that they are inconsistent with that which attributes the deflection of a magnetised needle to the general central attraction of the iron on its two poles or extremities , or on an imaginary needle passing through the pivot in the line of the dip .
In adopting the hypothesis of induced magnetism in the Second Edition of my Essay , I only attempted the calculation for an indefinitely short needle , or magnetic particle .
Since this M. POISSON has , by means of the powerful analysis he knows so well how to apply , obtained a general formula for a needle of any length ; and I have little doubt , if we possessed the means of estimating the amount of deterioration , or the actual inequality of magnetism in the two branches of the needle , that all the facts I have stated would become by his formula a subject for calculation .
The following experiments may perhaps in some measure assist towards rendering the results numerical : they were undertaken after the preceding part of the paper had been written on the suggestion of Captain BEAUFORT .
Three needles were procured from Messrs. W. and T. GILBERT , as nearly equal in weight , length , and power as possible , all applicable to the same pivot and compass-box .
The radius of each was three inches , and the number of 283 vibrations made by each in a minute when in their natural magnetic state , was eighteen .
No. i. was left in that state .
No. 2 .
was deteriorated in its northern branch ; No. 3 .
in its southern ; after which No. 2 .
made only i vibrations in a minute , and No. 3 .
12 vibrations in the same time .
With these needles the experiments were conducted as follows .
The ball was raised till its centre was lo inches above the pivot of the needle , and the latter placed at 13inches from the centre of the table , making the distance between the pivot and the centre of the ball 16-8 inches , which distance was preserved in all the experiments .
The box containing the needle was placed in the situation above mentioned , first north of the ball , then N. 2o ?
E , N. 4o0 E. and so on all round , to the north again .
And in each of these positions the deviation of each needle was successively registered , the results being as in the first division in the following table .
Precisely a similar set of observations were made with the centre of the ball lo inches below the pivot of the needle , as in the sd division of the table ; and lastly , a like set were obtained with the centre of the ball level with the pivot of the needle , the latter in this case being placed at the whole distance 16-8 from the centre of the table .
Deviations ; Deviations ; Deviations ; Situation ball 10 inches above .
ball on the plane of the table .
ball 10 inches below .
of compass .
Needle Needle Needle Needle Needle Needle Needle Needle Needle No. 1 .
No. 2 .
No. 3 .
No. 1 .
No. 2 .
No. 3 .
No. 1 .
No. 2 .
No. 3 .
North N 20 ?
EN 40 EN 6o EN 8o ES 80 ES 6o ES 40 ES 20 E South S 20 WS 40 WS 6o WS 8o W iN 8o WN 60 WN 40 WN 20 W I1 21* 30 344 34 1 274 201 I2 20 261 2 33 34 30 21 3 ? ?
25T 36i 434 41 22 9* 4 31 91 92 21 39 43i 36 252 10 2g i5i 22 27 302 3I 28g 222 28 292 29 3 ?
2 22 '5 74 II21 21 31 12 '3 8 _3 7 ; 13 II,.2 ici I7 74 ; lo !
?2 I0 844 7I 7 12 95 9 ; 4i 8 9 % 7I 9 I4 16 II 94 16 24 8* 74 3 I4 2I1 27 32* 34 3 ?
0 22 21 31 34i 33 26 20 9a 22 29 30 28 30o zx~ 21I '54 '5 2.1 29i 29 29 28 z11 4 21 " I 372 43 35 26 26 34* 43 39 21 94 3i Ieeooa o

