XV .
Rules and princzples for determining the dispersive ratio of glass ; and for computing the radii of curvature for achromatic object-glasses , submitted to the test of experiment .
By PETER BARLOW , Esq. F. R. S. Mem. Imp .
Ac .
Petrop .
&amp;c. Read May 3 , 1827 .
i. IT is very remarkable , since the achromatic telescope is altogether of English origin , that in no one of our separate optical treatises are to be found specific rules for its construction , fitted for the use of practical opticians .
Some essays of this kind have indeed been attempted ; the first of which is found in MARTIN'S " New Elements of Optics , " published in 1751 ; but the principle there adopted is erroneous , and of course the deductions , although possessing a great appearance of simplicity , are wholly useless .
Under the article Telescope , in the Encyclopaedia Britannica , is another essay of this kind , which is correct in principle , but far from possessing the degree of simplicity which is desirable for practical purposes .
Under the like article in Rees 's Cyclopaedia is a treatise on the same subject , which may be considered wholly practical ; it is founded however upon MARTIN'S method , but corrected by an empirical multiplier , which answers remarkably well in many instances , but is erroneous in all extraordinary cases .
Lastly , an elaborate and highly scientific investigation relative to these constructions was published by Mr. HERSCHEL , in the Phil. Trans. for 1821 , to which I shall refer more at length in a subsequent page .
These , I believe , constitute every attempt that has been made in this country to bring the strict laws of optics , applicable to these cases , within the reach of numerical calculation.* More numerous attempts have been made by foreign mathematicians ; but as far as my knowledge of them extends , they have in no instance been attended with the success that might have been expected from the deservedly high reputation of their authors .
I have spoken above principally of the methods of determining the radii of curvature of the lenses ; but in order to enter upon this calculation , certain data are necessary , which require previous experiments and tedious numerical computations ; so that upon the whole , to take two specimens of glass of unknown indices and dispersions , to form an object glass of them , free from colour and spherical aberration , requires very formidable calculations , involving in them , according to the best methods yet employed , certain principles and operations which we ought hardly to expect practical opticians to be masters of .
At all events , every simplification that can be thrown into experiments and calculations of this kind must be desirable ; and , I am greatly in hopes it will be found that I have , in the following pages , contributed a little towards this object .
Probably , also , the immediate comparison of the computed results , with experiments on a large scale , will add a value to this Paper , which it might not otherwise have been thought to possess , and for which I am indebted to Messrs. W. and T. GILBERT , who very liberally engaged to submit to the test of experiments any theoretical deductions I might be led to in an investigation of these subjects .
On the determination of the index of refraction .
2 .
The following method of determining the index of refraction , by means of a lens , is not given as new ; it has , on the contrary , been long practised ; but as it forms the foundation of the method for determining the dispersive ratio , and will occupy but a few lines , I shall be excused for introducing it into this Paper .
It is simply this:-since by knowing the radii of curvature of a lens , and its index of refraction , we may compute the focal length ; so conversely , by knowing the radii and measuring the focal length , we may compute the indexof refraction .
The method which we employed for measuring the focal length of a lens , was as follows : a tube about 22 inches in diameter , and which exactly measured io inches from the back of the lens to its other extremity , was fitted with a draw tube of the same length , graduated to inches and tenths , and which , by means of a vernier , might be read to the hundredth of an inch .
This was fitted with a positive eye-piece , which was adjustable to bring the cross wires exactly into its focus , and the graduations above-named commenced from this point or stop .
A board about two feet square , covered with black crape , and having a clean circular piece of card paper , with fine cross lines upon it , was placed at a convenient measured distance from the lens , and then the draw tube was adjusted till we had the focus exactly coincident with the cross wires .
This is easily ascertained , by moving the eye a very little upwards and downwards .
Then , when the image does not fall exactly on the wires , this motion of the eye will produce an apparent motion between the cross wires on the telescope and those on the card ; but when they are coincident , then , however the eye may be moved , the image and the cross wires will be at rest .
This being determined , the focal length for this distance of the object is read off as above described .
Let this focal length bef , the distance d , radii r , r ' , and index 1+ a ; then , by a simple inversion of the well known formula for the focal length of a lens , we have rr ' IIIa -r + r ' f+ d. But as for these experimental purposes we made the radii equal , or r= r ' , this formula became simply in this case a= ( --(I ) .
The only possible source of error this method involves , is in the measurement of the tools ; but this , from repeated experiments , we found might always be determined to within less than a five hundredth part of the radius , which can only affect the result to the amount of about -o1th part of the index .
234 Method of determining the dispersive ratio.* 3 .
The instrument employed for this purpose is similar to that used for determining the index , except that the tube , instead of being only ten inches in length , consists of three joints , one 20 inches , and two others io inches each , the draw tube being about 14 inches long ( graduated as before ) ; so that the length may be conveniently varied between 20 and o5 inches .
The cell , which carries one of the lenses at the extremity of this tube , screws inside flush with the tube itself , and will thus admit another tube about o2 inches long to slide over it ; at the extremity of the latter is another cell for carrying the plate lens .
This exterior tube is moved over the other by means of a tangent screw and handle , with HooK 's universal joint , as in the adjustment of transit and other instruments .
Moreover , the exterior tube being opened for the space of two inches , and the interior tube graduated , the distance of the two lenses from each other may always be read off to the hundredth of an inch .
The instrument being thus described , the method of using it , and the principle on which the determination rests , will be readily understood .
It is well known that in order to produce achromatism in an object glass , it is requisite that the focal lengths of the two lenses be to each other in the ratio of their dispersive powers ; that is , the ratio of the dispersive power of the flint being to that of the plate as : d , the focal length of the flint must be to that of the plate also as : d , the two lenses being in contact .
If therefore we have two lenses , viz. a concave flint , and a convex plate , in which the focal length of the latter bears a greater ratio to that of the former than i to d , we must open the two lenses from each other till the required ratio is obtained , when the object will be colourless , and therefore conversely , when the image is colourless , we shall be sure that the ratio of the focal lengths will be that also of the dispersive powers .
To illustrate this a little more particularly , let f , f be the focal lengths of the plate and flint lens , and let a be the distance of the lenses when the image is colourless .
Then , first , it is obvious , that the effect will be the same as if we had a plate lens in contact with the flint , which had for its focal length fd , but the actual quantity of its dispersion that dueto the whole focal lengthf ; that is , the same as a plate lens of focal lengthf , and whose dispersive power --fd .
And since in this state the image is colourless , it follows that f'f -."x : f f ' And therefore d , which is the quantity sought , is found from the equation th -(2 ) .
The lenses we employed were about 2ginches in diameter , $36 equally convex in the plate , and plano concave in the flint ; their focal lengths varying in the plate and crown from 92 to lo , inches , according to their respective refractive indices , and in the flint from about lo to I1 inches .
4 .
The flint lens , as will have been observed from the preceding description , is placed in the interior tube , and the plate in the exterior ; and if when the two interior faces of the lenses are in contact , the index does not read zero , its actual reading is recorded ; and ultimately , the index reading when the image is colourless is corrected by this quantity.* This preliminary being attended to , the manner of conducting the experiments is as follows .
Fix up the black board with the circular white spot , as already described , at a convenient distance , and in a good light , directly opposite the tube properly mounted on its stand .
Let the two lenses be placed nearly in contact , and suppose the length of the tube reduced to about 20 inches .
Now , move the plate lens gently forward by means of the handle and screw , the eye being placed at the eye-glass , and the image of the circular spot will , after a time , begin to appear in the field of the telescope , having a bright and strong violet spot in the middle ; at this time a very little farther motion in the plate lens will give a distinct image of the object , but encircled by a strong violet shade .
If now the tube be lengthened to about 25 inches , and the experiment repeated by closing the glasses , the violet spot in the middle , and the circular ring when the focus is obtained , will have changed to a fine blue .
If again we lengthen the tube considerably , that is to nearly 50 inches , we shall find by repeating the experiment , that is , by closing still more the two glasses , that the circular spot before the image is formed , and the surrounding atmosphere when the focus is obtained , will be red , orange or yellow ; and between these extremes a focal length will be found where the circular spot in the middle will lose all distinguishing colour , showing itself a bright white ; and when in the focus the image will be colourless , although surrounded by a visible atmosphere , principally proceeding from a want of spherical correction .
At this time the glasses are corrected for dispersion , and the compound focal length measured from the back of the flint , and the distance of the glasses must be accurately read off ; and with these data the dispersion may be obtained by the formulae already given , viz. : d= f -(2 ) In this expressionf is the focal length of the plate lens for the given object , and f ' the focal length of the flint for parallel rays .
The former may be found by direct observation with the index instrument , as already described , but the latter is best determined by means of the compound focus ; that is , calling the compound focus f " , we shall have 11I and f ' being thus determined , is to be employed in the preceding formula .
As an example : suppose the compound focus measured from the flint to be 34'89 inches , the focal length of the crown lens 9'85 inches , and the distance between the lenses 1-41 inches .
First II fl 38.89 8-44 Whencef ' =1 ils inches .
Then d= f844649 ff ' -9 85sx'i:3 ' -91 the dispersive ratio sought .
On the computation of the radiifor correcting spherical aberration and colour .
5 .
We have seen , that to render an object-glass achromatic , it is only necessary to have the focal lengths in the direct ratio of the dispersive power of the two glasses .
Let this ratio be i : d ; then representing the compound focal length by f " , we shall have f= f " ( d ) focal length of plate .
f , = fi ( -d .
) = focal length of flint .
And these focal lengths , without any other condition , will give a compound focal length f , and produce achromatic correction .
Let i 4+ a= index of plate 1+ a'= index of flint , r , r ' the radii of curvature in the plate , r " , r ' " those of the flint .
The order of the radii reckoned from the object side being r , r ' , r , r " ' , the two former being convex , and the latter concave , unless the contrary be stated .
Then by a known formula we shall have III r.r a 1I rfI N+r fa 239 Here then are four quantities to be determined , and only two equations ; so that if the condition of being achromatic was the only one , we might have any variety of answers at pleasure ; but it is also required that the object-glass shall be free from spherical aberration , which is still only a third condition ; and therefore , even with this , the question may still be considered as admitting of various solutions .
But a fourth condition may be that the two interior surfaces shall be either actually equal , or very nearly so .
And this last condition serves to bring the solution within very narrow limits , although it is still not strictly limited , unless we insist upon perfect contact surfaces , or some other specific condition .
Mr. HERSCHEL , in his very elaborate and valuable Paper on this subject in the Phil. Trans. Part II .
1821 , instead of this last condition , has taken another , viz. " the destruction of aberration , not only for parallel rays , but also for rays diverging from a point at any finite distance .
" The resulting equations by the introduction of this condition , make the radii of the two interior surfaces nearly equal ; but in several cases the convex side is the deeper , and the two surfaces therefore ride in the middle , unless separated at the edges by paper , or some other substance interposed between them , which by many practical opticians is considered objectionable.* The contact surfaces are also in this construction deeper , and the actual quantity of aberration in either lens to be corrected is greater than would otherwise be necessary .
Moreover , by insisting upon any fourth condition , $ Mr. HERSCHEL suggests that the best way would be in all cases to frame each lens into a separate cell , and to adjust them to each other by screws .
In this case , of course , it would be indifferent which of the two were the deeper surface .
equally rigid with the other three , the workman is restricted to a very exact accordance in the measure of all his four tools , and it leaves him no opportunity of matching a good flint lens with a plate , or a plate with a flint , which is in many cases a desirable convenience .
I have not therefore insisted rigidly upon a fourth condition , but have made this subservient to the above convenience , by only requiring that the contact surfaces shall be either exactly , or nearly equal , and the concave the deeper , when there is any difference between them .
The optician is thus enabled to make a choice , within certain limits , of the radii of one of his lenses , and has only to match the other to it .
By this means the intricate equation arising out of the fourth condition is avoided .
I am quite aware , that in this way a great sacrifice is made of analytical elegance ; but as my object has been to bring the calculation fully within the reach of such practical opticians as have no pretensions to a knowledge of analysis , I have preferred a simple , although somewhat indirect method of computation , to one more direct and refined , but at the same time more intricate and laborious .
The principle here proposed will be illustrated in the following paragraphs .
The investigation of the aberration produced at one spherical surface is found in most of our optical treatises , and need not therefore be repeated in this place ; of these expressions , that which is given in WOOD'S Optics ( art .
397 ) is perhaps one of the most simple .
I shall therefore adopt this , and refer the reader to the work itself for the investigation .
Let d be the distance of a radiant point from a spherical convex surface of a denser medium whose radius is r , and semidiameter y ; let also the sine of incidence to the sine of MDcccxxVI .
Ii 241 .
refraction be as i to i+ a ; that is , let the refractive index be i+ a ; then it is shown in the work above quoted that the aberration , in this medium , will be _a(d+r ) d +-(a + )r y P(ad-r ) ( a+ I ) dX 2r 4 This expression is for the case of diverging rays on a convex surface of a denser medium ; but it will apply to the case of a concave surface by merely changing all the signs of r. For parallel rays , d must be considered infinite ; and for converging rays , d must be taken negative ; so that this expression is general in all cases where the rays enter a denser medium .
When the rays pass from a dense to a rare medium , the ratio is i+ a : ; but this , to be rendered symmetrical , must be reduced to 1:1 -b , where b= - : substituting therefore in the above , every where b for a , we obtain for the case of diverging rays on a convex spherical surface , -b(d +r)X d+ ( 2b)r Y1 -P ( bd+r)z X ( I-b)d x 2r And the expression for converging rays on a concave surface is precisely the same , except in the sign of the last factor ; because both d and r changing from positive to negative , leave the expression precisely the same , with the above exception ; it becomes therefore in this case _b(d'+r')1 d'+(zb)rd ' y Pr { bd'+r')X ( ib)d ' x b(5 ) merely writing d ' and r ' for d and r , for the sake of distinguishing between the two formule .
7 .
Now , in order to find the aberration of a lens , as caused by the refraction at the second surface , which is equivalent to the rays falling upon the spherical surface of a rarer e4 , medium , the latter expression must be employed , in which therefore d ' is not in efinite as in the former case , but is dependent upon the refraction at the first surface of the lens , being the distance to which the rays converge in consequence of that refraction ; d ' therefore in this case , by a well known expression for the focus of the rays at one surface , is d ( a+dr _ ( 6 ) d ad-r ( 6 ) Where d must be taken positive or negative accordingly as the rays first diverge or converge , and r must be positive or negative as the first surface is convex or concave , and this value of d ' substituted in equation ( 5 ) , will give that part of the aberration which depends upon the rays , impinging on the second surface .
But there is also another part depending upon the aberration of the first surface ; for as the rays in consequence of the first aberration do not all converge to the distance d ' , whereas we have computed the second case as if they did , there will be an aberration on that account .
Let the aberration produced at the first surface be x ; then the consequent aberration at the second surface will be ( WooD 's Optics , Art .
405 .
) )(X X ( bd'+t r ' ) And hence the entire aberration produced with diverging rays by a convex lens from a distance d , the radii being r , r ' , will be expressed by a(dr ) d+ ( a+ 2)r ( I--b)rX Ir ( a d-r ) ( a + i)d X ( bd'+ --)^ .
Xy p b(d'+r')z d'+(2--b)r tt ( bd'+r')y ) ( ib)d ' Xre J And by substituting for b its value , nd making d c , d , this reduces first toc , d'= C , and r= q , this reduces first to 7r 7 ' and ultimately to ( c + q ) c+ ( a + )q 1 ( a c - ) c ( ac ' I. )XI ) r9 a(c ' +)Q ( c'+ 7--b ) &gt; ( b c ' + , )i XX_ In the above form it applies to the case of diverging rays and for a double convex lenslt itmately to be rendered applicable to every other case by attending to the proper signs of ( c 4 ' q ) c ?
( a z ) q ( aC-(a a-+ x ) ( 7)9 ( el'+ )~ ( C + 2----b)q j2 r ' r , and r ' ; d bel ie ve is the simplest for converging the genera lr expression for the aberration of a single lens can be reduced .
In the above form it applies to the case of diverging rays and for a double convex lens ; but it may be rendered applicable to every other case by attending to the proper signs of d , r , and r ' ; d being negative for converging rays , and r , r ' being positive or negative accordingly as they are either or both convex or concave .
( 8 ) .
When the distance is infinite or the rays parallel , then c being infinite , this expression becomes IIa X(ac ' +a+1 i ) ayI ( c'+ )2 ( c'+z -b)q x Xr ' P ; '(bc/ + I ) " ?
J and since also in this case =(a+ I)r and ( a + )q aa this equation after farther reduction , that is , after substituting c in terms of a , becomes a4 4a1 2a a4 4.6 a3 4 2a 4 af 3r112 ~~ ~ , ~.5 -244 Observing that --f= , fbeing the focal length ; or writing A , B , C , D , for the several coefficients , making also p ' ap af , and calling y= I , it is Aq=+B^qC ( 8 ) .
~ ' _=-v + Bq +~ _._ ( 8 ) .
9 .
This equation in the common form of object-glasses belongs only to the plate or crown lens , which receives the direct or parallel rays ; therefore the value of a , which enters into it , may always be considered to fall within the limits a= o'5 , and a= *53 .
When a '50 , this in numbers reduces to 4'5 e+ +-6 p , ( q + ) and the solution gives p'--.o / { ( pV -5o ) + ( p-x'6 ) ( 4'5 -p ' q _ ; n r - .
( 9 ) .
When a ='51 , , P'-'s3 ?
V ( P-'53 ) ' + ( p'1146 ) ( 4'47 ' ) 9= 4:47-P ( ) When a= 52 , p'-.56 ?
Jf ( p'--56)1 + ( p'1.127 ) ( 4.44-P ) }4 44 P ' t1 ) When a= '5s , p'58 +{ ( p'-5*8 ) + ( P-I .
) ( 4.42 - ) to .
Having thus ( equat .
7 .
) found a general expression for the aberration of a lens when the rays emanate from a given point , and in ( equat .
8 .
) the expression for the aberration of a lens receiving parallel rays , the indirect method by which an equal and contrary aberration in the two lenses is produced may be thus described .
3445 Since , when the aberration in the flint lens is so proportioned as to counteract that of the plate , all the rays converge to the mean focal point ; so , conversely , if we suppose rays emanating from that focal point , they will have precisely the reverse route , after their refraction at the flint lens , to that which they have when they are converging towards it in an opposite direction from the plate lens ; consequently , the aberration of the flint lens for rays emanating from the mean or compound focus , must be equal to the aberration from the plate lens for parallel rays in the opposite direction .
And in the former case , when the amount of aberration has been ascertained , this will be also that due to the latter ; whence the ratio of the surfaces which will produce this aberration , or the value of q may be computed by means of the general quadratic equation ( 8 .
) or the particular equation belonging to the given plate index .
Hence we may proceed as follows : 1 .
First , to compute the aberration of the flint lens for rays assumed to emanatefrom the compoundfocalpoint .
Here the distance =f " , index i+ a ' , dispersion =d and let the radii of the surfaces ( for distinction sake ) be r " ' , r " ; and the ratio of r " : r ' " : 1 : q. Then f= f " ( d ) = focal length plate .
f ' = f " ( ?
.\ ) = focal length flint .
r"f ' a ( q'+ 1 ) = outside surface flint .
r " f'a ' ( qI)= inside surface flint , ( a ' + i)fM rU ' Whence again , d ' .
-Ar ' ( 13 .
) dd ( a ' + i ) f " , ---af " r " ' ' are all known quantities ; and consequently , are all known quantities ; and consequently , ( c+q ) c+ ( a'+ 2 ) q ' ( a'c -q ) X ( a 'd + a ' + )2 a ' * ( cl + )2 ( c ' + z-- .
) q ' is also known .
This is the amount of aberration for the flint lens for rays supposed to diverge from the compound focal point ; and this , as we have seen , is also the amount of the aberration of the plate lens for parallel rays in an opposite direction ; but this latter is equal to ( art .
8 .
) .
Multiplying therefore the last found value of p by f a , and substituting for fj , r " , and r " ' in the preliminary equations , we obtain a ' d q ' d q ' ( a ' + i ) b ( q ' +i ) ' ( I-d ) ( + I ) + and lastly , ( c +q ' )c+ ( a + z ) q ( a'c-q , )2 X c(ac ' a+I j ) ' X ad + ( 6c'+I ) &gt; ) ( c ' + -b)q ' J ( bc + X)2c ' And this value of p ' substituted in equations ( 8 ) , will furnish the proper value of q for the ratio of the radii of the surfaces of the plate lens ; and we shall then have f f " ( itd ) = equal focal length of plate .
f= f/ t ( j dL ) = ) equal focal length of flint .
r= fa(q + ) stsurface } r ' =fa ( q+i )_2nd surface plate .
r= f'a'd( .
L)= 3d surface fli r"'= fd( q ' + ) == 4th surface The latter r " ' , being concave or convex accordingly as q ' is positive or negative .
It is to be observed , however , that if in these results r " should be less than r " , or if it should exceed it too much , so as to leave the contact surfaces too wide , a new supposition of the value of q ' must be made till the required approximation , stated in our fourth condition ( art .
6 .
) is obtained .
12 .
It fortunately happens that the most laborious part of the above operation , viz. the solution of the equation from which the value of q in the plate lens is obtained , is readily reduced to a tabulated form , whereby this calculation is altogether avoided .
This is done in the following short table , in which all the more practicable values of q are given for the several indices a '500 , a =-'510 , a '520 , and a= 530 ; and it will be seen that so little change takes place in the value of q , for these changes of indices , that the number answering to any value of a between these limits may be readily found by simple proportion .
In this Table p represents the amount of aberration as determined by equation ( 14 ) , and in the adjacent column is given the corresponding value of q : as to the method of using the table it will be readily comprehended from an example .
~48 13 .
Table showing the aberration of a lens for parallel rays to the four dierent indices '150oo , o5 520 , '5 153s0 .
p the Ratio of surfaces , or values of q for different indices .
value of aberra1.50 o 1i510 5-o 5'3 : tion .
qq '05 Imaginary .
: Imaginary .
I Imaginary .
'180 1'*0 '292 *291 '296 '303 1X'15 380 374'377 '380 1'20 '445 '445 '446 4 ; 47 I'25 '5J5 *510 '5o6 '509 1 30 '572 '570 '568 '567 1'35 '635 '627 '625 *626 1 *40 689 *686 683 *683 '45 '750 '743 740 '740 I*50o 803 .
8o0o 798 '798 " '55 865 '858 '855 '855 I 6o0 921 '917 '913 '913 '65 '979 '975 '973 '972 1'70 Io042 'o037 * ?
34 '1 ?
34 1'75 I'103 1'098 i '96 '95 1.8o0 x166 i*16I *15*9 '159 I'85 1'230 1'226 '223 1'223 1'90 ' '296 i'292 1'289 1290 '95 1'360o '356 1'357 1'359 0oo 1'434 I431 1'429 '430 2'05 ' x5o6 1'5 03 I 5o3 1'504 2 10o 158I 1'578 I'579 I'580 2z15 1'658 1657 I 658 1'659 2-o0 I'738 1'738 1'738 1'741 Example .
4 , .
Let it be proposed to compute the curves for an achromatic object-glass ; the data being as below , viz. Index of plate = 1'5S5 , of flint _= i6oo , Dispersive ratio --66 , diameter 5 inches , focus 80 inches , Here a '515 , a'= *6oo , d =66 , f " = 80 .
Firstf " ( -d ) = 80 x '4 = eo s f , and dd - ) 80 X 34 41.1 aAAU.~ J66- ?
^ P ?
We have thus the focal length of the plate and flint lens .
Assume now for the ratio of the radius of the inside surface to the outside surface of the flint 1 : 10 , that is , Let r " r ' " .
: 1 : lo or q ' =lo then rd( + , 4 X. 6o x _i r1 =f +X _4^ -"= -2719 concave , r"'= f ' a ' ( I +q')41 -x xo6 x 11= 271'9 concave .
Therefore to find the values of the letters employed in formula ( 14 .
) for the aberration , we have , r " =-27'19 r= 271'475,9 , 10 ( a'+"-rq= 4'03 a_ I f ' 80 rc2 942 ba ---1.6 -'75 .
b= a_tI == Tr '375 These values substituted in the expression ( C ' + l ' ) c q+ ( a ' +27 ) q ( 'c- ' ) xc ( aq c'-+'+ I ) ad + c'+ .
+ ) ( c +-b.)q'( ( ' +I ) P ) t ' +'+)1 xc " J give in numbers 49'84 23'06 1383 -47-45 55 X 66_ * ; 3o x VX " 73=P 2'23 40 3 If now we were to employ the equations given for determining the value of q , this value of p must be substituted in the equation answering to a '15i ; but making use of the table , we must find the nearest value to p in the first column above and below 1'73 , and thence the corresponding value of q. Here , since the values of q answering to p==1'70 , and 175 , are the same , for a= 51o , and a-= -'a2 , we may infer they are the same for a= -515 ; hence , 35o p = I70 , q= 1o03 , p= 170 p 1'75 , q= 09 , p =-173 o5 '6 : : : o03 : o036 Whencc q=X o66 .
Then again r ' =fa " + " ' 272 e very nearly .
q r=fa ( q + 1 ) = 28'9 .
Hence the required radii are r= 28'9 convex r 27 ' convex plate lens .
r " 27*19 concave r " ' 79 cccave flint lens .
r_ 271 '9 cOlcave V Comparison of the preceding formu Il wZith the empirical rule said to be employed by Mr. TULLY .
1t .
According to the description we have , under the article Telescope in REEs 's Cyclop , edia , of the principle of computation adopted by this ingenious optician , it appears that instead of computing the aberration of the flint lens from the focal point , it is calculated for parallel rays , and always for the index 1*5oo ; the formula made use of being 27 + 6q+7 as first given by HUYGENS .
This must necessarily give an erroneous result ; and to correct it , a comparison of various experiments has led to the formation of an empirical multiplier , which is said to compensate for the erroneous supposition , and to have formed the ground work of the practice of this able artist .
Thus , for example : having first computed the focal lengths of the two lenses , we must , according to these directions , assume any ratio , at least within practicable limits , for the radii of the surfaces of the plate ; viz. q= 7 ; then , by the above formula , find the value of p. Call now p the aberration of the flint lens , computed by the same formula ; then , independent of the correction above alluded to , we should have P P , p ' 'a a ' Jf-~ _ f-a ' , or fa PX da But the value of p ' thus found , as might be expected , does not produce a good object-glass ; and from experiment it was ascertained , that the best effect was obtained when the multiplier , instead of a , was made equal to a'Va ' ; p ' therefore is found by this formula a a ' ca13 X daVa3 Then , substituting this value of p in the equation._ _ 27 q+6q+7 P-6 ( q + I)2 the value of q is obtained ; and hence , of course , the radii sought .
Now , although this may furnish a very good approximation in some cases , it seems likely that it must , in others , deviate very considerably from the truth .
I was desirous therefore of comparing the results obtained by this empirical formula , with those of the correct numbers as above determined , and also to ascertain experimentally , within what limits we might be in error without producing a sensible change in the correction of the object-glass ; and through the assistance of -52B Messrs. W. and T. GILBERT I have been enabled to make various experiments , some of the most useful of which I will endeavour to describe .
First , however , let us ascertain what multiplier we should require , according to the practice we are speaking of , in the particular example computed in a preceding page .
i6 .
Assuming our plate lens such as we have found it , viz. having r= io66 = q , this gives 27 qo +6q+7P6 ( q +i ) ' 1'725 , and the multiplier a ad= 2-18 .
Now , the aberration of our flint , which theoretically corrects the aberration of this plate , computed by this formula , viz. by taking q 10 , is 27 q2 6q+87 p6( + 1 ) " 3'811 ; whence -p = -72 = 2'209 .
I '7z5 The empirical rule therefore approaches extremely near in its result , in this case , to that obtained on strict optical principles ; and in several other comparisons I have made , the agreement has been found equally close , although in others it differs too widely to be depended upon ; and as the rule which I have given is strictly correct , and involves no greater difficulty of calculation than that we have been examining , there can , I think , be no doubt to which the preference should be given in any practical case of this kind .
Experimental examination of the limits within which an error in spherical aberration and dispersion may have place , without producing a sensible defect in the object-glass .
17 .
Although I feel convinced that the method we employed for measuring a tool , would give us a true result within T-oth part of the radius , yet it by no means follows that a new tool can be made within the same limits to meet any computed radius .
In fact , if all the accuracy of radii were requisite which the strict theory requires , it would be almost impossible to construct an object-glass that would bear a practical examination ; fortunately , however , this is not the case ; some scope may be allowed , without any very sensible change in the performance of the telescope ; and to ascertain within what limits it was necessary to confine the error , was the object of the following experiments .
Experiment 1 .
18 .
According to the preceding computation ( art .
14 ) , we ought to have for an 80 inch focus the following curves ; the index of the flint being 1600o , of the plate ix5i5 , and dispersion 66 , viz. r 28 91 , Y plate = , 27* jpaecompound focus 80 inches .
r " --27'191 r"'=-2719flint Messrs. W. and T. GILBERT had by them two tools , which upon accurate measurement were found to be 26'4 and 264 , 254 and taking these instead of 27-19 and 271 9 , the first surface to be renderel proportional ought to have been 28o05 , and the focus 77.7 inches instealt of 80 inches .
A new tool was made for the first surface , but on measurement it turned out to be 8'4 , viz. '35 of an inch tco long .
We determined however to proceed with these radii , viz. 28 4 26-4 1 ' plate .
6 &gt; flint .
Focus 77-9 inches .
6'4J 2 64 J The glass being accurately ground to these numbers and well centred , the result was satisfactory ; the spherical aberration appeared to be very perfectly balanced , although the actual amount of the aberration of the plate lens , in consequence of the excess of the first surface , was 1 738 instead of 1.730 .
The focal lengths now also answered to a dispersion d664 instead of '660 , and yet the correction for colour appeared perfect .
It is clear , therefore , that an error to the amount here stated may exist between the computed and the practical radii , without producing any sensible detriment to the effect of the instrument .
The plate was now reversed , carefully adjusted , and the observation repeated .
The achromatic correction of course was still perfect , and the spherical aberration seemed also tolerably well balanced , although the actual amount of the aberration of the plate was now only 1-r6 instead of 1*73 .
The preference however appeared obviously to belong to the first arrangement .
Experiment 2 .
19 .
In order to ascertain the e fact of a known want of achromatic correction , a plate was employed which had been ground to 26A4 and so inches , so that the arrangement was now r =s30o 1r =2641 r 26'4 plate .
This would be the proportionate focal lengths for a dispersion '681 .
Here the focus was of course too long ; and the blue colour was so strong as to prevent our judging of the effect of spherical aberration .
The plate was reversed , but the focus and colour of course remained the same , as did also the general appearance .
As far as spherical aberration was concerned , that of the flint was obviously over-corrected in one case and under-corrected in the other ; but the defect was too much buried in the colour to enable us to distinguish the difference .
Exper4ment s. wo .
Messrs. GILBERT having by them a concave flint lens of the same glass to the radii 28*4 and 264 , this was matched with the last plate : the curves were therefore now r esr " =as 8-4q .
=r ' s0 plate .
r " ' _-64 .
flint .
which proportions answer to a dispersion 638 , about as much in defect as the preceding one was in excess .
And it was found to have the same general defect ; but the colour was now of course yellow .
Whatever the limits of error may be therefore that can be admitted with impunity , they must be far less than those in the last two experiments .
s56 Experiment 4 .
el .
Here our flint lens was one of GUINAND'S , and we assumed for its radii r"_404 , and r " ' infinite .
Its index was found to be 1*630 , and its dispersion with our plate '545 the index of the plate to be matched with it 1'55 ; and the proposed , or rather the resulting , compound focal length , 77 inches ; diameter 53 inches .
Here a '515 a'= 630 , d= '545 , f= 349'95 , f= '641 , jfP'77 ; and since r " ' and q ' in this case are both infinite , we must substitute for q ' , in the expression for c ' viz. ( ' + )lf"ql __ ( a ' + I)f " a ' -tfl , --'-W -3 ' 1 f " -r ---o 0 a ' ---o b- , , , + s= '386 .
Since q is infinite , our general equation ( 14 ) by rejecting all the terms into which q ' does not enter , reduces to a ' +2 ( C ' + ) C ' + 2-b ad(b c ' + I ) C'J= ( --o107 + 5'289 ) x '2806 1'46 , This answers to q -'753 Whence r =/ a ( q + 1 ) = 1'57 rl=f aq+ )4193 .
The radii we re a'ly employed were 325 ' and 40o4 , and the result as satisfactory in every respect with regard to correction ; but the flint lens was very veiny , which prevented its being a good object-glass .
Experiment 5 .
2e .
Here the curves of a flint lens were 222 and 56 ' , both concave ; the flint index 1x613 ; that of the plate to be matched with it 'i 5 ; and the dispersion d *637 .
By the formula we found r== 12-3 , and r'273 ; but the tools actually employed were 13 and 277 , and with these the effect was every thing that could be desired ; the colour and spherical aberration being both perfectly corrected .
Experiment 6 .
2s .
This was an object-glass which had been computed on the principles of Mr. HERSCHEL .
The index of the flint was i*587 , of plate '5i5 , dispersion '6775 , and the focal length 29-5 inches .
The radii and foci , as determined by Mr. HERscHEL 's rule , were r =199ill r"6-661 f-= 9.521 r ' 6-o50 r " ' 3449J f-= 14 o6J In order to compare this rule with the preceding , I assumed the flint radii as above , and computed the radii of the plate .
Here a -'515 , a= '587 , d =6775 f 9'52 f ' =-1466f'/ ( c+ )c+ ( a ' + 2 ) 1 ( a ' --q/ ) " c ( a c'/ +a ' + ) l ) ad ( C'+ I ) ( c'+ z-b ) fq i ( b c ' + c ' J( *-gives in numbers ( + '569-33'54 ) x --851 == 2805 .
This answers to q 3o64 ; and then r =fa ( q + )= 19'913 r ' fa ( + )6-499 These numbers agreeing so very exactly with Mr. HERSCHEL'S , was satisfactory ; for although no doubt I believe could be entertained relative to either principle of computation , yet it was highly pleasing to me to see so close an agreement in the results of two numerical processes founded on such widely different bases .
24 .
In these numbers , however , we have an example of the inconvenience , ( to which I have referred , p. 24o ) , of rigidly enforcing a fourth condition ; for the concave of the flint being less deep than the corresponding plate convex radius , it was thought necessary to alter these numbers : this was done by changing r " =_ 666 to r " = 6'58 , and r ' = 6'50 to r ' = 6'61 , which was the least alteration we could make in the contact surfaces to have the concave the deeper of the two ; the other radii were necessarily altered to r= -l9o , and r ' " = 32-5 ; so that our actual experimental radii were r=--19-o l r"=6'58 r'6-61 r"-'=+ 32'5 the focal length and dispersive ratio , that is , the ratio of the eSI9 focal lengths , being thus very exactly the same as required by the conditions of the problem .
The lenses ground to these numbers turned out very fine ; the surface , centering , &amp;c. was also very perfect , and the result , notwithstanding the discrepances between the computed and actual radii employed , was very satisfactory .
The scale of the experiment was however too small , the diameter of the lens being only 2inches , so that the defect of correction for aberration was not very sensible ; but in several other subsequent experiments , with very nearly the same proportional numbers for focal lengths of 5 , 6 , and 7 feet , with proportional apertures , the want of correct balance in the spherical correction was very manifest .
It seems therefore that we may in some cases deviate from the radii given by theory much more than in others , without producing the same defect in the instrument ; and it will be seen that this ought , a priori , to be expected .
We know that the amount of aberration ( the focal length , aperture , &amp;c. being given ) , varies with the ratio of the surfaces , and is least in the plate lens for all the usual indices for parallel rays , when r : r ' 1 : 6 , and is very little increased with the ratio of 1 : ; all those results therefore , which require a ratio comprised within , or near , these limits , will have but a small quantity of aberration in the plate lens to be corrected by the flint lens ; but when we employ such numbers as require a ratio of 3 to i , or 4 to 1 in the plate , then the aberration to be corrected by the flint is very considerable , and a small discrepance between the computed and practical radii will produce a much greater error than the same discrepances would in the former instance ; and to this circumstance I attribute the difficulty which we certainly found in submitting Mr. HERSCHELS numbers to practice .
Nothing can be desired more accurate nor more elegant than the principles and the analysis on which it is founded , nor any thing more simple than the ultimate result ; but it happens , that except the most rigid agreement has place between the computed radii and the radii employed , the discrepance has a very considerable effect upon the correction of the object-glass .
The rule which I have endeavoured to explain in the preceding pages is , I believe , equally correct , but it possesses none of the elegance of investigation which distinguishes the other .
To compensate for this , however , it has an extensive range of application , and will enable us in all cases to select those particular radii which will produce the required correction with the least liability to error , and with the closest contact surfaces .
We may also , by rejecting the latter condition , match any flint whatsoever with its proper plate ; which is I believe a great practical convenience .
The above are only a few out of a great number of experiments , but I have selected them so that they embrace all the varieties which can ever occur ; viz. with the flint double concave when q is positive ; with the flint plano-concave when q is infinite ; and with it concavo-convex when q is negative .
So that I hope no one who has any knowledge of the meaning of an algebraical formula , can be at any loss in submitting the rules I have endeavoured to illustrate to a practical application .
26l Approximate method of computing the curves for an achromatic object-glass .
25 .
On refering to the formula ( 4 .
) for finding the value of p , it will be seen that the first term which expresses the aberration due to the aberration at the first surface , is very inconsiderable with respect to the other term , and that the former may be omitted in all common cases without producing any sensible error .
This omission serves to contract the operation very considerably , while by a simple inspection of the table ( art .
13 .
) it will be seen that its several columns are so nearly the same , that any mean one may be adopted instead of the whole : availing ourselves of this circumstance , every rule and principle for constructing an object-glass may be comprised in the following short synopsis , and the result may be used with every degree of confidence in all ordinary cases ; although in large telescopes , and in cases where the index and dispersions are very extraordinary , it will be necessary to employ the exact formula already illustrated .
According to the approximation here alluded to the rules for the computation may be stated as follows .
; 6 APPROXIMATE FORMULA For the Construction of Object-glasses .
Index plate i+ a. Index flint =1 + a ' , dispersive ratio 1 : d , focal length = f " .
f =f " ( i--d ) = focal length plate , ff=f , ( d ?
) = focal length flint : Assumed ratio of flint surfaces i : q ' , r " = f ' a ' ( + q ) =inside radius fli r1 = f ' a ' ( 1 + q ' ) = outside ditto Find b d.~a +I a'f " -r " ' ( CI + I)2 c ' + 2-b adq ' tP ( boe + I ) xc'i and the corresponding value of q in the following table .
ppqpqp r'5 '374 I'4o 683 1'65 '972 x'9o 1-29 1'20 '446 145 '739 I170 I-03 1-95 1'36 P125 *506 1.50 '798 ' 175 109 2'00 P'43 1'30.568 I'55 '855 '80 I16 2'05 '150 x*35 '625 i'6o '913 1I85 122 2z10 3r58 Then r =fa ( q -+ )= radius ist surface r'= fa ( q+ I ) radius 2nd surface pl q i !
r ^ a , 268 Method of practically determining the index of refraction and the curvature of the surfaces of any given convex or concave lens .
26 .
It is frequently convenient for a practical optician to be enabled to determine the radii of curvature of a given lens , and I am not aware of any rule being given for this purpose ; the following therefore may be acceptable .
The method of measuring the radii of a given concave lens is very well known : it is simply to measure the reflected solar focus of each of the two surfaces ; then double these numbers will be the radii sought .
The same simplicity of calculation does not present itself in the convex lens ; still , however , the following method of deducing the radii will be found by no means difficult .
Obtain , as in the case of the concave lens , the focus by reflection from the back surface of the convex lens , exposing first one surface and then the other to the solar rays ; measure also accurately the solar focal length of the lens by refraction ; and then by means of these three quantities , equations may be formed which will give the radii of curvature and index of refraction .
Let r , r ' be the radii of curvature of the two surfaces , and i 4x the index of refraction let the lens be exposed to the sun 's rays , so that the latter are first received upon the surface r. Then by known optical principles the refracted focus at the first surface will be e may now therefore ( disregarding the thickness of the We may now therefore ( disregarding the thickness of the 26'4 lens , consider these rays as converging towards the back surface to a focus f ; and from this surface a part of them will be reflected to a focus J ; which will be expressed by fr ' 2/ '-r ' ' This , by substituting for f , its preceding value , and making y xL becomes { -t _r r ' _r I ' _ X. .
ve2ry rr r zr---r These rays will be refracted at the first surface to a focus which we suppose to have been measured .
Let this measured distance be m ; then by known principles for expressing the refraction at the surface of a rarer medium , we have I --y i z(-y)r --1(i +y Or substituting for f ' , we obtain ( I -y ) r ' z( +y)r And of course by simply inverting the lens , or changing r to r ' , we have ( calling the other measured focus n ) ( I--y)r 2(t r+y n2 ( + +y Let cp be the measured solar focus by refraction ; then ix being the index , we have From which three equations , and the known relation between y and x , the three required quantities x , r , and r ' may be obtained .
If we make = q : these equations are ( I-y ) r+ 2 , ( 2 fie ) , q ( q +i)x= r ' and q+ix= r. q Substituting for r ' and r in the two former , we have ( observing that ( 1-y ) x =y , y ( q + ) _2 mi +yq Iy ( q )_2q +Y .
Q Hence m ' + my q= y ( q + ) , and y=(_ m ) q+i , e ' + ( --m ' ) q+ q+Yy +.Y -(il ... .
' ) *]I And substituting the last two values in the equation preceding them , we have m ' ( q + ) .
-n ' m ' + ( I--m ) p -q + or , m'n ' + ( n ' m ) m9 +nq -= W ' ( q + 1 ) .
Whence ( m ' n'n ' ) q9 + ( m'n ' ) q n ' m ' ' , n2 n ' m ' ' or.2 4-t. .
q= n m ' _n ' And since here q1 is obviously one of the roots , the other will be mn " ' _ ' or q= -r ( Again , since y = , and we may readily ob y tain x= ( pzj ( 2 ) .
mj readily obtain 2m ( ---_ ( 2 m ) ( q + i ) ( 2 ) .
Whence the index i+x is known .
As also , x ( q+ )-r ' ( 3 ) .
x ( ' ) =r ( 4 ) .
The radii sought .
27 .
In order to determine the index of a given concave lens , we must combine it with any proper convex lens to produce a compound focus .
Let this focus be cp , that of the convex lensf , and the required focus of the concave x , then by known principles =+xf ' Whence x becomes known .
Having then measured the radii of curvature as already stated , and calling them r , r ' , and index i+ a , we have ( r r. r ) a'( ?
+ )= ' and since r , r ' , and x are known , a ' and i+ a ' will of course be known also .
267

