January 9 , 1851 .
Lieut.-Col. SABINE , R.A , V.P. and Treasurer in the Chair .
The reading of Prof. Owen 's paper " On the Exogenous Processes of Vertebrue " was resumed and concluded .
The author commences by a definition of these as contradistinguished from the autogenous parts or ' elements ' of a vertebra , and exemplifies theim by instances from Human and Comparative Anatomy , which show the necessity of a distinct substantive term for each of such parts and processes .
The terms proposed are as follows : Vames .
Synonyms in ComparaSynonyms in Human Anatomy tive Anatomy ( Cuvier ) .
( Soemmering ) .
rCentrum .
Vertebral body .
Corpus vertebrae .
Neurapophysis .
lamine .
Arcus posterior vertebrae , seu radieraohyI | lineces arcus posteriores .
, ) Pleurapophysis .
rib , cervical rib , Costa , sen pars ossea costee , prohatchet-bone .
cessus transversus vertebrae cervi ?
.~ rpohss | rb evc rb ot s ps calis .
H IHemapophysis .
Sternal rib , chevronCartilago costze .
bone .
Parapophysis .
Inferior transverse proRadix prior sen antica processus cess .
transversi vertebrze cervicalis .
FDiapophysis .
Superior transverse proRadix posticus processus transversi cess .
vertebrae cervicalis , processus transversus .
I Zygapophysis .
Articular or oblique Processus obliquus seu articularis process .
vertebrae .
Metapophysis .
Prolongation of artietapophysis .
roloao ouo processus accessorii processui IZa hs .
cular process .
transverso et articulari superiori Anapophysis .
Supplemental articuinterpositi .
lar process .
LHypapophysis .
Inferior spinous process .
Spi .
neural .
Spinous process .
Processus spinosus .
pn haemnal .
Inferior spinous process .
The principal aim of the present communication was to point out the proportion of the vertebrate animals in which the metapophysis , anapophysis and hypapophysis were present , their principal modifications , and their title to the distinct appellations bestowed upon them .
The metapophysis is noticed by Monro , in 1726 , as a small rising between the roots of the superior oblique and transverse processes ; and both this and the anapophysis appear to be defined in similar terms , as sometimes characterising the lumbar vertebrae , by Soemmering .
The author of the present paper commrences his comparative anatomy of both processes by describing them in the European , Polynesian and Australian varieties of the human race .
He then passes to the Quadrumana , and traces their modifications and progressive development in the Chimpanzee , Orang-utan and Gibbon , in the Cercopitliecus ruber , Semnopithecus entellus , lacacus rhesus , lfacacus niger , iMacacus nemestrinus , Papio mormon , Ateles paniscus , Ateles Beelzebuth , Cebus ccpucinus , Callithrix sciureus , Lemur nigrifrons , Lemur Catta , Lichanotus Indri , and Stenops gracilis .
In the order Carnivora , the same processes are described in the Lion , Hyaena , Wolf , Fox , Civet , Genette , Otter , Sable , Kinkajou , Mydaus , Badger , Bear and Seal .
The presence of anterior articular processes ( pre-zygapophyses ) is demonstrated in all these Carnivora , in the anterior dorsal vertebra ; and their apparently greater production in the succeeding vertebrae is shown to be due to the gradual transference of their articular surfaces upon the metapophyses , which are processes distinctly superadded .
In the Rodent Order , the modifications of the metapophyses and anapophyses are described in the common and Malabar Squirrels , the Marmot , the Hydromys , the Rat , the Cape Jerboa , in which the anapophyses attain their maximum of relative size ; in the Beaver , the Porcupine , the Coypu , the Paca , the Capybara , and in the Hare .
The distinction between the metapophyses and the pre-zygapophyses is particularly strongly marked in the Capybara .
In the Insectivora , the Hedgehog is an instance in which metapophyses are developed but not anapophyses .
The modifications of both processes are traced , in the Marsupial Order , in the Thylacine , the Dasyure , the Wombat , the Perameles , and in two species of Kangaroo .
The diapophyses being developed from the last as well as the antecedent dorsals in these marsupials , renders the homology of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebree unmistakeable : but the diapophyses of those vertebree are lengthened out by anchylosed pleurapophyses , of which those of the first lumbar vertebra in the Wombat , compared by the author , had not completely coalesced .
In the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus the metapophyses are double in some of the anterior dorsal vertebree , but become single in the sixth dorsal , and gradually increase to the twelfth .
The anapophyses are rudimental .
In the Ruminant Order , the accessory processes are described in the Elk , the Giraffe , the Gnu , the Equine Antilope , the Ox , the Aurochs , the Camel , the Vicugna , the Memmina , and the Musk-deer .
The anapophyses are rarely , and then only very feebly developed ; the metapophyses are constant ; they appear as tubercles above the diapophyses in the anterior and middle dorsals , and pass upon the zygapophyses in the penultimate or last dorsal .
The author records a peculiarity in the skeleton of a musk-deer ( Moschus moschiferus ) .
In the pair of ribs attached to the thirteenth dorsal vertebra the tubercle is wanting , and the diapophysis is obsolete , as in the last dorsal vertebra of other Moschidtc ; but in the following vertebra , answering to the first lumbar in other Moschiddc , the rib is developed with a head and a distinct tubercle , articulated to an equally distinct diapophysis .
This plainly demonstrates the homology of the diapophysis in the next vertebra , answering to the second lumbar in other Moschidce .
There are no anapophyses in the Hog-tribe and Hippopotamus : the metapophyses resemble those of the ruminant artiodactyles .
The perissodactyle Ungulates manifest some peculiarities .
In the Sumatran Tapir , e. g. the metapophysis is a very distinct process in the third dorsal , subsides in the four next dorsals , and reappears as a prominent process in those that follow , but does not attain the position upon the zygapophysis except in the last lumbar vertebrae .
In the Horse and Rhinoceros , as well as the Tapir , although there are no proper anapophyses , the diapophysis of the last lumbar developes an articular surface on its back part which articulates with a corresponding surface on the sacrum .
In the vertebrae of the Elephant a peculiarity is pointed out which is not adverted to by Cuvier or De Blainville , and appears to have escaped notice , viz. an accessory pair of joints between the metapophysis and anapophysis , commencing between the seventeenth and eighteenth dorsals , and continued to between the first and second lumbar vertebrae .
The metapophyses have been undescribed , also , in the Cetacea , although they are represented in the plates of the ' Ossernens Fossiles ' distinctly from the anterior zygapophyses , and exist in many vertebrae after these processes with their articular surfaces have wholly disappeared : the modifications of the metapophyses , and their mode and place of superseding the prezygapophyses , are described in the Delphinus Tursio and D. Delphis : their modifications are also pointed out in the Dugong .
But the most remarkable development and complexity of the accessory exogenous processes is presented by certain members of the Order B]ruta or Edentata of Cuvier .
The author commences with a description of them in the Sloths , and gives his reasons for considering the length of the neck in the three-toed species to be due to the superaddition of two cervicals between the dentata and eighth vertebra , which , from certain characters of its complex transverse process , he regards as homologous with the sixth cervical vertebra of the two-toed species .
In the Cape Ant-eater ( Orycteropus capensis ) , both metapophyses and anapophyses are present on the eighth dorsal vertebra ; the former are continued to near the end of the tail , the latter subside in the last lumbar .
In the armadillos the metapophyses commence abruptly about the middle of the back , and progressively increase until they equal the long neural spines in height : they develope two articular surfaces , one on the inner side of their base , another on the outer side : the latter articulates with the anapophysis , which is remarkable for its thickness , and developes a second inferior articular surface for the parapophysis , which , together with the diapophysis , is developed from all the lumbar vertebre .
These complex joints are illustrated by drawings taken from two species of Armadillo .
The exogenous processes present still greater complexity in the true Ant-eaters .
The metapophyses commence in the cervical region , change their place from the zygapophyses to the diapophyses in the anterior dorsals , and back again to the zygapophyses in the posterior dorsal and lumbar vertebrae , where they supersede those processes ; and develope accessory articular surfaces for the anapophyses .
These not only present an upper articular surface for the metapophysis , and a lower one for the parapophysis , but develope a third outer one for a new articular surface upon the diapophysis ; so that , were not the ordinary articular processes , or zygapophyses , obliterated in the posterior dorsal and lumbar vertebrae , there would be not fewer than eighteen synovial joints , in addition to the intervertebral joints , in the posterior lumbar vertebrae of the Great Ant-eater .
These processes and articulations are illustrated by figures taken from the Great Ant-eater ; and the necessity of the substantive names for the processes , and of adjectives to signify their added articular surfaces , was exemplified in the explanation of those figures .
The peculiar complexity of the vertebrae of the Edentata having been , previously to the investigations of the author , illustrated by a comparison with those of the Serpent tribe , he next enters upon the question of the precise nature and extent of this analogy , and shows that , although the complex joints in both are comparable to the tenon-and-mortice joints in carpentry , they are produced by different processes in the Mammal and the Reptile .
The zygapophyses exist in both ; to these , in the Mammal , are superadded the joints developed on metapophyses and anapophyses , which are below the zygapophyses ; but in the Serpents , the superadded joints are on parts which the author terms the ' zygosphene ' and 'zygantrum , ' and are above the zygapophyses .
Some characteristic differences are next pointed out in the Ophidian genera Coluber , Hydrus , Naja , Crotalus , Python , and the extinct genus of large serpents from British eocene strata called Paleophis .
The author also points out that the tenon-and-mortice joints are not , as was supposed , peculiar to the Ophidian reptiles , but exist in the Iguana , where they are likewise due to the superaddition of zygosphenal and zygantral articulations .
The author finally enters upon the comparative anatomy of the ' hypapophysis , ' that name being applied to the process , commonly exogenous , from the under or ventral surface of the centrum , rarely autogenous from the same aspect of the capsule of the notochord .
The modifications of the hypapophysis are exemplified in the Hare and Rabbit , the Cape Jerboa , the Hydromys , the Phoca groenlandica and Leptonyx serridens , in the Hippopotamus , the Megaceros , the Musk-deer , the Camel , the Giraffe , and other Ruminants .
In the Ornithorhynchus the atlas is remarkable for a pair of hypapophyses , like the first vertebra in the Sudis or Arapaima gigas : but the most remarkable instances of the development and modification of the hypapophysis are to be met with in the class of Birds .
It is there well-marked in the anterior cervical vertebra , especially in the dentata , and reappears in the lower cervicals as a pair of processes , which defend and sometimes encompass the carotid arteries , forming a quasi-haemal arch , as in the Pelican .
The still more extraordinary developments of the hypapophysis in the Aptenodytes and Sphceniscus are specially described and illustrated by figures .
The modifications of the same process are pointed out in some extinct Reptilia , as e.g. the Crocodilus basifissus , the Mososaurus , the Iguanodon and the Ichthyosaurus : in the latter the hypapophysis is exogenous in the neck , as in some Lizards , and forms the so-called ' wedge-bones : ' the part usually called ' body of the atlas ' is serially homologous with these ; the true centrum of that vertebra being the so-called odontoid process .
The memoir concludes with a demonstration of the serial homology of the haemal arches of the tail , sometimes called chevron-bones , and the essential distinction of the hypapophyses from the haemapophyses , and at the same time from the parapophyses , with which the hypapophyses co-exist in the cervical and anterior thoracic regions of the Crocodile .
The paper is illustrated with fifty-five drawings , of which detailed descriptions are appended to the memoir .

