January 13 , 1853 .
COLONEL SABINE , Treas .
, V.P. , in the Chair .
The Earl Granville was elected a Fellow of the Society .
A paper was read , entitled " Description of some species of the : extinct genus Nesodon .
" By Professor Owen , F.R.S. Received Nov. 25 , 1852 .
The author commences by referring to a genus of extinct herbivorous mammals which he had founded in 1836 , on certain fossil remains discovered in Patagonia , and which , from the insular disposition of the enamel folds characteristic of the molar teeth , he had called Nesodon .
Subsequent transmissions of fossils from the same part of South America , by their discoverer , Capt. Sulivan , R.N. , now enabled the author to define four species of the genus .
The first which he describes is founded on a considerable portion of the cranium and the lower jaw , with the teeth , and is called Nesodon ovinus .
After the requisite osteological details and comparisons the author proceeds to describe the three incisors , the canine , and five molar teeth , which are present on each side of both upper and lower jaws , and then enters upon an inquiry as to the nature and homologies of the grinding teeth .
The result is to show that the first four molars belong , with the incisors and canines , to the deciduous series , and that the fifth molar is the first true molar of the permanent series ; the germ of a second true molar was discovered behind this , in both the upper and the lower jaws , whence the author concludes that the Nesodon ovinus had the typical number of teeth when the permanent series was fully developed , viz. i 7- , c _ , p4m 344 .
3-3 The structure of the grinding teeth proving the extinct animal to have been herbivorous , the number and kinds of teeth in the entire series show that it was ungulate .
In this great natural series of mammalia the author next shows that the Nlesodon had the nearest affinities to the odd-toed or perissodactyle order amongst the existing , species ; but certain modifications of structure , hitherto peculiar to the even-toed or Artiodactyle Ungulates , are repeated in the cranium of the Nesodon : more important marks of affinity are pointed out in the Nesodon to the Toxodon ; and both these extinct forms of South American herbivores are shown to agree with each other in characters of greater value , derived from the osseous and dental systems , than any of those by which the Nesodon resembles either the Perissodac. .
tyle or Artiodactyle divisions of hoofed animals .
The genus Nesodon is characterized by the following modifications of the teeth , which in number and kind are according to the typical dental formula above given .
Incisors trenchant , with long , slightly curved crowns , of limited growth : canines small , not exceeding in length the contiguous premolars .
Molars , in the upper jaw , with long , curved , transversely compressed crowns , which contract as they penetrate the bone and ultimately develope fangs ; the outer side of the crown ridged , the inner side penetrated by two more or less 2M73 complex folds of enamel , leaving insular patches on the worn crown : enamel thin .
The lower molars , long , straight , and compressed ; divided by an external longitudinal indent into two unequal lobes , both penetrated at the inner side by a fold of enamel , which is complex in the hinder lobe .
All the teeth have exserted crowns of equal height and arranged in an unbroken series .
The bony palate is entire and extends back beyond the molars , the maxillaries and palatines forming the back part in equal proportions .
A distinct articular cavity and eminence for the lower jaw ; the eminence long and concave transversely , short and convex longitudinally ; a protuberant post-glenoid process ; a strong and deep zygoma , the orbit and temporal fossa widely intercommunicating ; the premaxillaries join the nasals .
Of the genus presenting the above dental and osteal characters the author defines four species : the first , about the size of a Llama , is the Nesodon imbricatus ; the second , of the size of a Zebra , is the Nesodon Sulitani ; the species to which belong the portions of skull , with the teeth , described in the present memoir , did not exceed the size of a large sheep , and is termed the Nesodon ovinus ; fourthly , a species of the size of a Rhinoceros , Nesodon magnus , is satisfactorily indicated by a grinder of the upper jaw .
In conclusion , the author remarks , that the osteological characters defining the orders of hoofed quadrupeds , called Proboscidia , Perissodactyla and Artiodactyla , are associated with modifications of the soft parts of such importance , as not only to establish the principle of that ternary division of the great natural group of Ungulata , but to indicate that the known modifications of the skeleton of the extinct Toxodons and Nesodons of South America , in the degree in which they differ from the osteology of the already defined orders of Ungulata , must have been associated with concomitant modifications of other parts of their structure which would lead to their being placed in a distinct division , equal to the Proboscidia ; and , like that order , to be more nearly allied to the Perissodactyla than the Artiodactyla .
This new division of the Ungulata the author proposes to call Toxodontia , and he remarks that its dental and osteal characters , while they illustrate the close mutual affinities between the Nesodons and Toxodons , tend to dissipate much of the obscurity supposed to involve the true affinities of the Toxodon , and to reconcile the conflicting opinions as to the proper position of that genus in the mammalian class .
The paper is illustrated by twenty-three highly-finished drawings , by Dinkel , of the fossil bones and teeth of the different species of Nesodon .

