On the Conlmunications between the Cavity of the Tympanum and the Palate in the Crocodilia ( Gavials , Alligators and Crocodiles ) .
By Professor OWEN , F.R.S. 8fc .
Received December 20 , 1849 , -Read February 28 , 1850 .
THERE are three perforations which succeed each other along the middle line of the base of the cranium in the Crocodilian Reptiles .
The hindmost ( Plate XL .
fig. 1 , v ) , situated in the basioccipital , near the condyle , is the smallest and least constant in size and existence : it gives passage to a vein , which traverses a vertical canal in the bone homotypal with the vertical vascular canal that opens upon the under surface of the bodies of the vertebra of the trunk .
The , next foramen in advance , e , is larger and on a lower level ; it is constantly present and is regular in its size and position : it perforates the fore part of the basioccipital close to the basisphenoid .
The third or anterior foramen , n , is the largest , and opens on a still lower plane : it is formed entirely by the pterygoids , which it perforates in a forward direction , and is the posterior aperture of the nasal passages .
There exists a difference of opinion as to the nature of these latter foramnina , and especially as to the function of the middle foramen , e , viz. that which perforates the basioccipital close to the basisphenoid .
CUVIER describes it in his celebrated chapter on the Osteology of the Crocodile , in the last volume of the 'Osseinens Fossiles , ' p. 78 , 4to , 1824 , as leading to " a canal which traverses the body of the sphenoid , and terminates by two branches opening into the 'sella turcica , ' and , at p. 133 , he refers to it in the cranium of the ' Gavial de Caen ' ( Teleosaurus cadonensis , GEOFFROY ) , as an arterial foramen ( ' le trou des arteres ' ) .
" Trlhe continuators of CUVIER , in the posthumous edition of the ' Leqons d'Anatomrie Comparee , ' t. ii .
p. 523 , desciibe the foramen in question morte accurately , as leading to a canal which bifurcates as it ascends ; one of the branches traversing obliquely the body of the sphenoid , whilst the ?
other perforates the basilar part of the occipital , and opens inito the cavity of the internal ear .
They do not state where the branch termlinates which traverses the basisphenoid* , nor what passes through either canal .
In the description of the tymnpanic cavity of the Crocodilet , no mention is made of this cornmrnmunication , or of the Eustachian tube , which is described in the Sauria'ns generally as communicating with the palate by a wide and short canal ( p. 511 ) .
But in a supplementary paragraph to CUVIER'S description of the foramina in the base of the skull of the Crocodile , the osseous aperture of the Eustachian tube is stated to be perforated in the exoccipital , near its junction with the basioccipital , and to be situated below the anterior condyloid foramen .
In the ' Report on British Fossil Reptiles , ' communicated to the British Association in 1841 I , I described the foramen in the basioccipital , e , as the common terminal canal of the Eustachian tubes , and the foramen in advance of it , n , as the posterior aperture of the nasal canals .
In the 'Abhandlungen iiber die Gavial-artigen Reptilien des lias-formation , ' fol. 1841 , by Professors BRONN and KAUP , it is argued at great length ( pp. 12 , 16 , 24 ) that the median foramen , e , is the true posterior aperture of the nostrils ; and a letter from Professor DE BLAINVILLE , dated December 8th , 1841 , is cited by those authors in support of their view , in which letter CUVIER'S determination , that it was 'an arterial foramen , ' is rejected , and Professor BRONN'S opinion is stated to be completely confirmed by the appearances in the original fossil skull of the Teleosaurus from Caen , described and figured by CUVIER .
Besides the median foramnina above specified , there are several lateral foramina , in symmetrical pairs , in the same part of the base of the skull of the Crocodile .
One on each side the base of the condyle , Plate XL .
fig. I , p , is the 'precondyloid foramen , ' which gives exit to the hypoglossal nerve : external to this is a larger foramen , t , through which pass the eighth pair of nerves and a vein from the tympanic cavity ; below these , and still in the exoccipital ( 2 ) , is the foramen , c , described by the continuators of CUVIER as the bony outlet of the Eustachian canal ; and still lower down , in the suture between the basioccipital ( 1 ) and basiphenoid ( 5 ) , is the foramen , el , which I have not found noticed by any anatomical author .
The decisive test of the nature of these latter foramina , el , and of the different opinions respecting the foramina , c , c , and the median foramina , e and n , was , of course , to be sought for in the results of an accurate anatomical examination of the parts in the recent Crocodile .
I have , accordingly , availed myself of the opportunities liberally afforded to me by the Council of the Zoological Society , to dissect for this purpose specimens of an Alligator ( Alligator lucius ) and a Crocodile ( Crocodilus acutus ) which have died at the Zoological Gardens ; the examination being made after injecting the vessels of the head with coloured wax .
The entocarotid arteries ( Plate XL .
fig. 2 , c ) enter the foramina ( fig. 1 c , c ) situated , one in each exoccipital bone , 2 , at the side of the base of the condyle , below * Le trou condylo'idien est dans l'occipital lat6ral , et en dehors de lui est un trou assez grand pour des vaisseaux .
L'ouverture osseuse de la trompe d'Eustache est au dessous des precedents , aussi dans l'occipital lateral , et tout pres du point de reunion de cet os avec le basilaire et le sph4noide."-Le , ons d'Anat .
Comp. tom .
ii .
p. 524 , 1837 .
t Reports , 8vo , p. 96 .
the outlet for the hypoglossal and eighth pair of nerves , t and p. In a young Crocodile , with a head of eleven inches in length , the common trunk , fig. 2 , cc , of both carotids is continued along the under surface of the cervical vertebrae as far as the dentata , where it bifurcates into the two carotids : these diverge , ascend , inosculate with the vertebral artery , v , and subdivide into the ectocarotid , ec , and entocarotid .
The latter artery , c , at the first part of its course , extends obliquely forwards inwards and upwards , protected by a bony canal , half an inch in length , which terminates by projecting freely as a tube of a line in length ( Plate XLI .
fig. 4 , c ) , opening into the cavity of the tympanurn beneath the bony plate , 16 , to which I have restricted the term 'petrosal* .
' The artery emerging from the bony canal extends forward across the base of the tympanic cavity , covered only by a reflexion of its lining membrane , for about a third of an inch , and then enters a second bony canal , opening into the fore part of the tympanum , and cohtinued to the ' sella turcica , ' where the carotid enters the cranial cavity , as is shown in Plate XL .
fig. 3 , c. No artery enters the single median foramen , Plate XL .
fig. 1 , e , situated close to the suture between the basioccipital and basisphenoid .
The soft palate which covers this part , immediately behind the true posterior nares , forms a subcircularl protuberance with a single central aperture ( Plate XLI .
fig. 5 ) ; this aperture is also partly closed by a valvular membranous prominence , x , which reduces its area to a crescentic form .
This orifice in the soft palate is not , as I had supposed , continued exclusively from the bony orifice in question , e , immediately above it ; but is the common palatal outlet of three canals , one of which , e , is median , extending into the bony canal , figs. 6 and 7 , e , which ascends into the substance of the basisphenoid ; the other two , el , are membranous for the extent of eight lines , and diverge as they ascend to penetrate the fissures , fig. 7 , el , one on each side of the larlger median foramen , and which lead to canals , fig. 7 , e ' , extending upwards between the basioccipital and basisphenoid .
From the inferior openings , Plate XL .
fig. 1 , el , of these canals in the dry skull , grooves lodging their membranous prolongations are continued to the commnron median fossa into which the middle osseous canal , fig. 7 , e ' , opens by the foramen , e , in question .
Dissections of the recent parts demonstrated that this foramen , like the two lateral canals , communicated by a membranous tube ( fig. 5 , e ) with the surface of the palate and would receive air from the mouth .
It was next to be determined where the air would be conducted by those tubes ; and the passage leading from the median foramen was first traced .
In an alligator with a head 14 inches in length , the foramen , e , leads to a canal lined by a continuation of the palatal membrane , which ascends along the suture between the basioccipital and basisphenoid , for nearly 2 inches , and then bifurcates ; one branch inclining forward into the basisphenoid , the other rising vertically into the basioccipital , and both in the same median plane .
I followed out the further course of these canals in the skull of a Crocodilus acutus of about the same size as the recent Alligator .
Figurie 7 , Plate XLI .
shows the common median canal extending from e to e ' , where it divides .
Each of these branches subdivides , and sends its subdivisions , one to the right the other to the left , to communicate with the tympanic cavity .
The lateral canals , el ' , which comnmence below at el , one on each side of the median foramen , communicate with the lateral subdivisions , eo , of the posterior or basioccipital branch of the common median canal ; a small rhomboidal sinus , eo ' , being formed at their point of union , from which a short canal is continued to the tymnpanic cavity .
Thus each lateral canal , el , with each posterior latexial subdivision , eo , of the basioccipital branch of the median canal , has a common opening into the base of the tympanic cavity of its own side .
Each lateral subdivision , es , fig. 8 , Plate XLII .
, of the anterior or basisphenoid branch of the mredian canal opens into the tynlpanic cavity at es , fig. 10 , in advance of the preceding orifice .
The lining membrane of these several canals here becomes continuous with that of the tympanic cavity .
Thus it was seen that no passage from the median orifice or canal in question , e , figs. 1 and 7 , between the basioccipital and basisphenoid , conducted to the nasal passages , but that all the branches from that common orifice opened into the tympanic cavity : at the same time it was deinonstrated , that the commrnunication between the tympanum and the palate , cornlmmonly called the 'Eustachian tube , ' was more conmplex in the Alligator and Crocodile than had been suspected , or than was known to exist in any other animal .
It may be described as follows:-From each tympanic cavity two passages are continued downward , one from the fore part , Plate XLII .
fig. 10 , es , the other from the floor , ib. eo , of the cavity .
The anterior canal , es , passes downwards and inwards , expands and again contracts before it unites with its fellow from the opposite side at es ' , fig. 8 , to form a median canal , es ' to e ' , which passes from the basisphenoid to the space or broad suture between that bone and the basioccipital , where it terminates in the single subvertical canal , e ' to e , descending along that suture to the median foramen in question , e , fig. 1 .
'T'he opening at the floor of the tympanic cavity , eo , fig. 10 , leads to a short canal , eo , figs. 7 and 8 , which curves towards its fellow from the opposite tympanum , but first swells into the rhomboid sinus , fig. 7 , eo ' , and divides ; one branch descends almost vertically , el ' , and terminates by the small foramen , el , fig. 1 , in the osseous groove or channel leading to the central aperture and fossa ; the other branch , eo to eo ' , fig. 8 , continues the course inwards and downwards until it meets its fellow at the median line of the basioccipital at eo ' , and forims the posterior primary division of the common median canal , eo to e : this soon joins the anterior division , at e ' , to form that common canal , which then descends and .
terminates by slightly expanding into the foramen , e , at the middle of the fossa between the basioccipital and basisphenoid ; which fossa receives also the grooves lodging the memrbranous canals from the lateral fissures .
Finally , the three bony canals terminate by their memnbranous continuations e and el , fig. 5 , Plate XLI .
, in the single Eustachian valvular outlet , x , on the soft prominence behind the posterior nares , n. The canals from the lateral orifices , el , are partially divided by a longitudinal ridge of bone projecting into them from their anterior wall : and the dilated lateral branches of the alisphenoid division of the median canal , es , are impressed by a longitudinal groove .
I may also remark , that at the upper part of their place of confluence or termination , there is a median fossa leading to a small vascular canal .
The tympanum of the Crocodiles , Plate XLII .
fig. 10 , is very extensive , by reason of the air-cells continued from it , not only into the mastoid , but across the basioccipital and basisphenoid* , and into the exoccipital , supraoccipitalt , alisphenoid and parietal bones+ .
Bv the dissection of a young Gavial of the Ganges , preserved in spirits , and a coinparison of this with sections of the cranium of a full-grown specimen , I have satisfied myself that the third median system of Eustachian tubes , as well as the two lateral tubes , exist in the Gavials as in the Alligators and true Crocodiles ; only in the G(avial the common terminal canal of the median system is shorter , as is shown in Plate XLII .
fig. 9 , e , es , eo .
It appears to have been still shorter in the extinct Teleosauri ; the posterior primary division of the canal which penetrates the basioccipital forms , in the section of the skull of the Caen Teleosaur , a subcircular depression , which is filled with the matrix in the Parisian specimen .
The anterior primary division , answering to es , fig. 9 , plainly perforates the substance of the basisphenoid , as it ascends obliquely forwards , and therefore can by no means be regarded as the posterior termination of the nasal passages , which , in the Teleosauri , are surrounded exclusively by the pterygoids , as in all the existing folrms of Clocodilia .
With regard to the homologies of the above described complex Eustachian or palato-tympanic air-passages in the Crocodilia , the lateral bony canals , el ' , fig. 7 , terminating at the grooves , el , answer to the simple Eustachian tubes of lizards and mammals : the median canal , e , e ' , with its dichotomous divisions , is a speciality peculiar to the Crocodilia .
I forbear , with my present limited experience of the living habits and actions of ' the Crocodilian Reptiles , to offer any hypothesis as to the function of the complex canals which conduct the air and would convey its sonorous vibrations from the nose to the ear : but one peculiarity I may suggest , as being probably related to the structures in question , in which the Crocodiles and Gavials differ from all the Lizard-tribe , viz. that of habitually floating with the operculated meatus externus submerged , and only the eyes and the prominent nostril exposed above the surface of the water .
Any noise in the air that might reach the floating reptile would , under such conditions , be conveyed to the tympanum by the canals conducting to that cavity from near the hinder opening of the long nasal passage ; and it may also be remembered , that there is a peculiar valve in the Crocodiles which shuts off all communicationl between that passage and the mouth .
DESCRIPTION OF THIE PLATES .
PLATE XL .
Fig. 1 .
A view of the hinder part of the base of the skull of a Crocodile , showing:v .
The venous foramen .
e. The median Eustachian foramen .
el .
The lateral Eustachian foramina ( the canal , el ' , is laid open on the right side ) .
n. The posterior nasal aperture .
c. The carotid foramina .
p. The precondyloid nervous foramina .
t. The foramen jugulare .
1 .
The basioccipital .
2 .
The exoccipital .
5 .
The basisphenoid .
24 .
The pterygoid .
The bristle ending at this figure is passed through the median canal and right subdivision of its basioccipital branch through the sinus of communication with the lateral canal , which is laid open between t and c. Fig. 2 .
A view of an injected preparation of the Crocodilus acutus , showing the course of the carotids cc , vertebral artery v , and entocarotid c , to its foramen , and through the posterior bony canal into the tympanic cavity .
Fig. 3 .
Showing the emergence of the entocarotids , c , from their anterior bony canals opening into the sella turcica , their sinuous course forwards , and confluence into the single artery continued into the rhinencephalic division of the cranium .
PLATE XLI .
Fig. 4 .
A section of the skull of a Crocodilus biporcatus , showing the free or prominent tubular termination of the posterior bony carotid canal in the tympanic cavity ; c , a style passed through the canal ; 16 , the petrosal .
Fig. 5 .
A section of the bony and soft parts of the palate of an Alligator ( All .
lucius ) , showing the posterior nares , n , the common median valvular aperture , x , of the median , e , and the two lateral , el , Eustachian canals ; bristles are passed along the membranous portions of these tubes .
Thazz TWDFCCL W XLa .
" \ ^ , ,^^S 'J Tig .
Crocodti &amp; ; 4 cwztvs .
CrocoditNs Jos95 -mz kg id 6z 6te 'Z .
- ?
I ?
?-- ?
-c..1. . ? ? ? ?
: , .
JBprinte X7 ; i. , If:''rs .
Th-T1an,7sMDBCCCL .
P7lz1e .
XLL , p 526 .
n9.5 ngs .
6 ie e. i : ; i ?
i_ ' " ?
r i : ?
I-i ?
-tp : : : .
1:i ikegp ; !
; : ?
: f 3 ?
5r : I-:j s : ?
f3 " ; XL""I 1Fi ` , , p ; it : n n/ 1Cz:yatnr cins 'ig 1 ?
Ag 4 . ?
Cx* : ? ? ? ? ?
;61"- ' ' ; ? ? ? ?
I:kUIL ?
B1%918CEaPli ?
lBi : ?
i ? ? ? ? ?
' iW ?
I , Ijrir !
*_ . ? ? ? ?
h " cl " ; . .
" . ?
:i.- : ?
` :::::i:i a ; , X , .
_ql( " : : ? ? ? ?
: ?
::::::3 i:"P ( ii I`i : ? ? ?
?t " ; ?i. .
f ! ?
: I -B16 ; sa.$ ?
iatf .
; i i ic w , z.v sB I B : " :- ?
d ` c ?
;i ?
i ; ?'r$:i : a ?
?- ?
i / e : " ?
C !
1 ?
i i. ?
' : , " ? ? ? ? ? ?
r ; i , :1 : " t 1. .
: i b : i ; :::. .
s t : ?
t i ? ? ?
?si r i ; ... , 6i a ?
: .
SW t ; i. . ?
ji .
Iv n/ 1 ; : b Craeociis Bpol ?
cafwc,7rJy 7)77..7 liZ det e 7l 1j .
Crt(w.Pi.zf , d , ,'y eJ .
Qot^i,7b .
Fh/ a Tars .
MDCCCLCLf &amp; e.lU.p.56 .
--:'Crco tics b4eorct s. -Eli-0Rff.9 .
~~ ~~ i--:^---*CE aF-zn t. Zi c. c2sre , Gatrals gwagetwcl s lJos-pi et.d 1 .
et &amp; z % .
iI i. ?
- ? ? ?
?I- ' - ? ? ? ?
; - ' ? ? ? ?
... .Y ?
" ?
r*'-* ` ?
Q , ?
I i ; ' 3-9 ?
a-'- : Fig. 6 .
The opposite side of the same section , showing the median bony Eustachian canal , e , the lateral membranous Eustachian canals , el , cut off where they join the lateral bony canals , and the pterygoid air-cells , pt , communicating with the posterior nares , n , n. Fig. 7 .
A section of the cranium of the Crocodilus acitus , showing the course of the median Eustachian canal , e , to its bifurcation at e ' , the division of the basioccipital branch , e ' to eo ; the course of the left lateral Eustachian canal , el ' , to its communication , at the rhomboidal sinus , eo ' , with the tympanic branch of the basioccipital division of the median Eustachian canal .
PLATE XLII .
Fig. 8 .
A vertical section of the cranium of the Crocodilus biporcatus , a little to the left of the median line , showing part of the left tympanic branches , es , eo , and the orifices , es ' , eo ' , of the right tympanic branches , of the primary divisions of the median canal , e ' to e. Fig. 9 .
A vertical median section of the cranium of a Gavial , Gavialis gangeticus , showing the basioccipital division , eo , and the basisphenoid division , es , of the median Eustachian canal , e. Fig. 10 .
A vertical section of the tympanic cavity of the Crocodilus biporcatus , showing bristles inserted into the basioccipital branch , eo , and basisphenoid branch , es , of the Eustachian tube ; c , the entry of the entocarotid canal .
527

