Inquiries concerning the Nature of a metallic Substance lately sold in London , as a new Metal , under the Title of Palladium .
By Richard Chenevix , Esq. F.R.S. and M.R.I.A. Read May 12 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 290 .
] In April last , a printed notice was circulated concerning a substance to which the name of Palladium , or new silver , was assigned , and of which samples were offered for sale at Mr. Forster 's , in Gerrard Street , Soho .
A discovery of such importance did not fail to excite the curiosity of several mineralogists ; and among these , Mr. Chenevix , to whom the manner in which this object was presented to the public appeared suspicious , was among the foremost in procuring a sufficient quantity of the substance to enable him to institute a proper analysis by which the fallacy , if there were any , might be detected .
The substance , as exposed to sale , had been worked by art ; it had been rolled out in flatting-mills , the largest of the lamina being about three inches in length and half an inch broad , and weighing on an average twenty-five grains each .
It had much the , appearance of platina ; but its specific gravity was so low as from 10-972 to 11*482 ; that of pure platina in the same state being at least 22 .
The laminae were flexible , but not very elastic .
After describing these its physical properties , the author proceeds to a circumstantial account of his chemical analysis , and gives an ample detail of the action , on this metal , of caloric ; of simple combustible bodies , such as sulphur and charcoal ; of other metals , forming various alloys ; of alkalies and acids , in the latter of which he found that the true solvent of palladium was nitro-muriatic acid , which attacked it with great violence , and formed a beautiful solution ; and lastly , he mentions the appearance and principal properties of the precipitates from its various solutions .
From the results of this investigation we learn , that the vender of this substance was not guilty of misrepresentation when he ascribed to it the following properties:1 .
It dissolves in pure spirit of nitre , and makes a dark red solution .
2 .
Green vitriol throws it down in the state of a regulus from this solution , as it always does gold from aqua regia .
3o This solution , when evaporated , yields a red calx , that dissolves in spirit of salt or other acids .
4 .
It is thrown down by mercury and by all the metals except gold , platina , and silver .
5 .
In a common fire the face of it tarnishes a little , and turns blue ; but comes bright again , like other noble metals , on being heated to a greater degree .
6 .
The greatest heat of a blacksmith 's fire will hardly melt it .
7 .
But if touched while hot with a small bit of sulphur , it runs as easily as zinc .
After maturely considering the results of his experiments , and comparing them with the an-alogous ones made on the various known metals and combinations of metals , our author acknowledges that he does not find to which of them it may be assimilated .
The striking resemblance , however , of several of the precipitates of palladium with that of platina , first led to the suspicion , that if the former be a combination , the latter is no doubt one of its principal ingredients .
The stubborn circumstance of the very low specific gravity appeared one of the most difficult to be surmounted ; since an alloy of platina , even with tellurium , the lightest of all metals , would not by calculation give so low astandard .
Iteflecting , however , upon the various modifications which substances undergo when in union with each other , and on the variations produced in the laws of affinity by the intervention of new bodies , he was induced to try whether , by the affinity of platina withi some other metal easily reduced , and the interference of an intermediate agent , a reduction of both metals might not be brought about , although no such effect could be produced upon each metal when separate .
Mercury was thought the most likely to succeed , as being the most reducible ; and the intermediate agent adopted was green sulphate of iron .
A solution of this sulphate was poured into a salt of platina , and also into a salt of mercury ; in neither of which any precipitate took place .
The two liquors were then united , and a precipitate , exactly resembling that which is formed by green sulphate of iron in palladium , was instantly formed .
This precipitate was collected and exposed to a strong heat , and a metallic substcance was obtained , not to be anyways distinguished from palladium .
Thus , after having been baffled in his attempts to discover , byv analysis , the component parts of this substance , which he could never bring himself to consider as a new metal , a synthetic process at lengthl led him to the discovery , that the whole pretence was an imposition , and that the substance is , in fact , a combination of platina and mercury ; in which the latter , while it marks the most characteristic properties of the former , loses the greater number of its own distinctive qualities .
The singular fact , that an alloy of two metals should be produced , the specific gravity of which is little more than one half of what it ought to be by calculation , is , no doubt , worthy of particular attention ; and as quicksilver was in this process brought to a fixed state under circumstances never before observed , a notion might be entertained that the great desideratum in alchemy , the fixation of mercury , was by no means a visionary object .
This anomaly of the true and the calculated specific gravities of alloys has been attended to with great .
caution ; and we find the results of the inquiry collected in a table , in which are entered the true and the calculated specific gravities of palladium with seven different metals ; and the differences are stated , which vary much more considerably than might have been expected , both in excess and defect , the number representing this difference in the combination with platina being +2*100 , and with tin -1165 .
Those who cultivate chemistry with any degree of ardour , will be gratified to see in this paper the pains taken by the author , and the various modes he has devised , to produce this compound metal in its most perfect state of combination .
Among various other results , it appears that the specific gravities of the alloys vary according to the proportions of the two ingredients in the following manner : Spec. grav .
Spec. grav .
Spec. grav .
Platina 61\11 7 1M &amp; ericury a 11 736 { 7013 249 j81 J15141 Should this alloy ever be found useful in the arts , or for oconomi-n 12t4 cal purposes , the author owns that other methods of forming it , besides those here suggested , might be contrived : but the general problem , he says , is to combine , in the most intimate manner possible , the greatest quantity of mercury with a given quantity of platina .
And he adds , that the principal difficulty in resolving the problem will be to unite such a portion of mercury that the specific gravity of the compollnd may not exceed 12 ; and that it may be soluble in nitric acid .
In the course of this inquiry , many instances have occurred which show how much we have yet to learn concerning the nature of mercury and platina .
Of the former , we know that it is perpetually varying ; and that certain solutions of it will frequently change their state in a few hours : and as to the latter , we are still more in the dark concerning its principal properties .
A considerable part of the present paper is taken up in describing some experiments respecting these metals , from which we learn that platina will combine with oxygen , and form a true oxide ; that the affinities of platina differ much from what has generally been stated in the tables ; and that , in general , the whole doctrine of chemical affinities still offers a field for much investigation .
The affinities of metals , which are here experimentally demonstrated in several instances , will , no doubt , serve to put us upon our guard concerning the admission of new simple metals , which , on close examination , will often , as in the present case of the palladium , turn out to be combinations of so close a nature as not to be easily decomposed .
A great obstacle to the discovery of this deception is , no doubt , the little dependence that is to be placed on specific gravities ; since , as we have seen above , a contrary anomaly to that which operates upon platina and mercury may take place in other alloys , which in some cases become as much heavier than the mean as the palladium becomes lighter .
In a word , the principal task of modern chemists seems to be to simplify and reduce the immense number of supposed elements ; and , by a close observation of nature , to learn from what a small store of primitive materials all that we behold and wonder at has been originally created .

