On the Action of Platina and Mercury upon each other .
By Richard Chenevix , Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.A. &amp;c. Read January 10 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 104 .
] Mr. Chenevix , in the month of May 1803 , presented to the Royal Society a paper , which was printed in the Philosophical Transactions for that year , respecting the nature of a metallic substance which had been offered to the public as a new simple metal , under the name of Palladium .
In that paper he not only attempted to prove that the said substance , instead of being a simple metal , was merely a compound of platina and mercury , but he also described certain processes by which he had been enabled to produce it .
He now expresses his mortification to learn that the processes he there recommended , as the least likely to fail , have been generally unsuccessful ; and confesses he has reason to believe " that the nature of palladium is considered by most chemists as unascertained , and that the fixation of mercury by platina is by many regarded as visionary .
" In France , he says , the compound nature of palladium has been more generally credited ; M. Guyton , who was appointed by the National Institute to make a report upon Mr. Chenevix 's experiments , having repeated some of them , and having been led by the results to the same general conclusions as Mr. Chenevix .
Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin also made some experiments upon the subject ; but as about this time a new metal had been discovered in crude platina by Mons. Descotils , the above-mentioned chemists were led to suppose it probable that the new metal was concerned in the production of palladium ; and finally declared , as their opinion , that the substance called palladium does not contain mercury , biut is formed of platina and the new metal of M. Descotils .
Mr. Chenevix adduces several arguments to show that this opinion is not well founded ; and in the latter part of his paper , he says , that in order to ascertain the matter , he observed the methods recommended by those chemists for obtaining pure platina , but did not perceive any difference in the facility with which either kind of platina combined with mercury .
Mr. Chenevix then adverts to the experiments of Messrs. Rose and Gehlen , who attempted to repeat some of the processes described by him for the formation of palladium .
The experiments of those gentlemen were unsuccessful ; but this , Mr. Chenevix considers as not militating against his experiments , as he shows that the processes made use of by them , though meant to be an exact imitation of his , were , in fact , materially different .
The same gentlemen , Mr. Chenevix says , seem to question his having fused platina , as they could not succeed , although they exposed it to a heat , the degree of which Wedgwood 's pyrometer ceased to mark .
Upon this Mr. Chenevix remarks , that they do not mention their having made use of any flux ; whereas he employed borax for that purpose .
He then describes , at full length , the method used by him , which consists in filling a Hessian crucible with lamp-black pressed hard together , and placing the platina , surrounded by borax , in the centre of the lamp-black , at the bottom of which there is previously formed a cavity to receive the platina when fused .
Mr. Richter also attempted to make palladium by the process which Mr. Chenevix describes as the best for that purpose , but failed .
He was , however , convinced by his trials , that " mercury is capable of entering into combination with platina , so that it cannot afterwards be separated by fire .
" It appears also that Mr. Tromsdorff , and likewise Mr. Klaproth , have made some fruitless attempts to obtain palladium .
As these gentlemen , as well as Messrs. Itose and Gehlen , and Mr. Richter , seem disappointed at their want of success , Mr. Chenevix takes occasion to observe , that they appear to have placed a reliance upon his processes , which his words did not authorize ; and says that his paper , " as far as regards palladium , is rather a narrative of fruitless attempts , than a description of an infallible process , and more likely to create aversion to the pursuit , than to inspire a confidence of success .
" The compound nature of palladium , Mr. Chenevix thinks , has received some support from the galvanic experiments of Mr. Ritter , who found its galvanic properties different from what they ought to be , upon the supposition of its being a simple metal .
As a further excuse for the failure that has attended the repetition of his processes , Mr. Chenevix mentions that Prof. Lampadius , a few years ago , " in distilling some substances that contained sulphur and charc6al , obtained a peculiar liquid , which he called sulphur-alcohol ; and that , after many fruitless attempts to procure the liquid a second time , he abandoned his researches .
Messrs. Clement and Desormes , however , some time after obtained this liquid , but were equally unsuccessful in their numerous attempts to produce it again .
In February last , Professor Lampadius accidentally discovered , and 1,7 has published , a method of obtaining the above-mentiohned liquid , which never fails .
" By taking the reasoning on this subject in its widest extent , Mr. Chenevix thinks we shall be led to conclude , that metals may exercise an action upon each other , even in their metallic state , capable of so altering some of their principal properties , as to render the presence of one or more of them not to be detected by the usual methods .
In this is contained the possibility of a compound metal appearing to be simple .
But to prove this proposition must be a work of great time and perseverance , and can only be done by considering , singly and successively , the different cases which it contains , and by instituting experiments upon each .
" As an example of the foregoing position , and to prove that mercury and platina act upon each other so as to disguise the properties of both , Mr. Chenevix states , that when a solution of green sulphate of iron is poured into a solution of platina , no precipitate , nor any otlier sensible change , ensues ; but if a solution of silver , or of mercury , be added , a copious precipitate , in part metallic , takes place .
He has tried to produce the same effect with other metals and platina , but has not observed anythling similar .
From this he thinks it fair to conclude , that " whenever a solution of platina is precipitated , in a metallic state , by a solution of green sulphate of iron , either silver or mercury is present .
He adds , that the precipitation of a mixed solution of platina and silver , requires no further caution than to free the salt of platina , as much as possible , from muriatic acid .
" Mr. Chenevix then makes some observations , which cannot well be abridged , on the precipitation of platina by mercury ; but which show that " the state of oxidizement of the latter metal , as well as the acid in which it is dissolved , produce a considerable modification in the result .
" It then occurred to him , that " a method of uniting platina and mercury , without the intervention of any other metal , or of any substance except the solvents of these metals , might be accomplished , as in the case of silver and platina : " and he describes an experiment , which shows that when the mercury is at its minimum of oxidizement in nitric acid , the addition of green sulphate of iron is superfluous .
But , on the contrary , if " mercury be raised to its maximum of oxidizement in nitric acid , no precipitation occurs till the green sulphate of iron is added .
" Mr. Chenevix also makes a variety of observations respecting the complicated affinities which take place when the muriates of the above metals are employed .
These we shall pass over , and proceed to notice those experiments which form the principal object of this paper .
From the first experiment it appears , that if a solution of highly oxidized nitrate of mercury is poured into a mixed solution of platina and green sulphate of iron , a muriate of mercury is formed , and also a metallic precipitate ; the former is retained in solution ; the latter weighs more than the original quantity of platina , even after nitric acid has been boiled repeatedly , and in large quantities , upon it .
By exposure to heat , he acknowledges that little more , in general , is left , than the original weight of the platina , and admits that even a diminution of weight may be sometimes observed .
Before the precipitate has been exposed to heat , it may be dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid more easily than platina itself .
The second experiment is to show that when a mixed solution of platina and mercury is precipitated by metallic iron , a precipitate nearly equal to the sum of the two former metals is generally obtained , the properties of which appear to be similar to those of the precipitate obtained in the first experiment .
We learn , from the third experiment , that when an amalgam of platina , formed by means of the ammoniacal muriate of that metal , according to the method of Count Mussin Pushkin , is exposed to heat , a metallic powder remains , which is soluble in nitro-muriatic acid , and affords a copious precipitate by means of green sulphate of iron .
The fourth experiment states , that if sulphur is added to the ingredients used in the formation of the above-mentioned amalgam , and the whole treated as before , the precipitate caused by green sulphate of iron is more considerable .
The fifth experiment informs us , that if sulphur is rubbed with ammoniacal muriate of platina , the mixture may be melted on a sand bath .
If mercury is then added to the melted mass , and the whole exposed to a strong fire , a button remains , which , being dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid , gives a precipitate , as before , with the green sulphate of iron .
In the sixth experiment we are told , that if sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through a mixed solution of platina and mercury , and the precipitate afterwards melted with borax , the button will not contain any sulphur .
Green sulphate of iron causes a precipitate in the solution of this button. .
The seventh experiment serves to show that phosphate of ammonia , when added to a solution of platina and mercury , causes a precipitate , the solution of which is acted upon by green sulphate of iron .
By the eighth experiment it appears , that if the precipitate formed by adding nitrate of mercury , at the minimum of oxidizement , to muriate of platina be washed , reduced , and afterwards dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid , another precipitate may be produced by means of green sulphate of iron .
The ninth experiment relates to the action of recent muriate of tin , which Mr. Chenevix says is one of the most delicate tests in chemistry , detecting the presence of mercury .
If a single drop of neutralized nitrate or muriate of mercury is put into 500 grains of water , the addition of muriate of tin causes the liquor to become turbid , and to assume a smoke-gray colour .
And even if the above liquor is diluted with ten times its weight of water , the effect is still sensible .
But if recent muriate of tin is poured into a solution , not too much concentrated , of platina and mercury , it can hardly be distinguished from a simple solution of platina , If , however , too tauch mercury be present , the excess is acted upon as in the case of mercury , the liquor assuming a darker colour than with platina alone .
From the above experiments , Mr. Chenevix infers that mercury can act upon platina , and confer upon it the property of being precipitated , in a metallic state , by green sulphate of iron .
The first and second experiments prove , he says , that platina can protect mercury from the action of nitric acid ; and also that mercury increases the action of nitro-muriatic acid upon platina .
The third , fourth , fifth , sixth , seventh , and eighth experiments show that mercury can combine with platina , in such a manner as not to be separated from it by the degree of heat necessary to fuse the compound .
The eighth experiment proves that the action of mercury upon platina is not confined to the metallic state , but that these metals can combine and form an insoluble triple salt , with an acid that produces a very soluble compound with platina alone .
The ninth experiment shows that platina can retain in solution a certain quantity of mercury , and prevent its detection by a substance which acts powerfully when platina is not present .
Mr. Chenevix admits that one or two of the above-mentioned experiments appear to contradict some of those he described in his former paper on Palladium ; for in the present experiments , " platina protects mercury against the action of nitric acid , whereas in palladium the mercury is not only acted upon itself , but contributes to the solution of platina in the same acid .
" The discussion of these objections , Mr. Chenevix says , he shall defer to another opportunity .
He also acknowledges that there is some incorrectness in his former paper , with respect to the proportional quantities of the ingredients that enter into the composition of the metallic precipitate formed by means of green sulphate of iron ; and after making various remarks on that head , states the mean result to be about 17 parts of mercury , and 83 of platina , when the specific gravity of the compound was about 16 .
Mr. Chenevix concludes by observing , " that he has as yet seen no arguments of sufficient weight to convince him , in opposition to experiment , that palladium is a simple substance .
Nothing is more probable , he says , than that nature may form the alloy called palladium , and even form it better than we can do ; and he thinks that the amalgamation to which platina is submitted before it reaches Europe , is sufficient to account for its containing a small portion of palladium .
" With respect to the failure that has happened in the attempts of others to make palladium , he says he is himself too well " accustomed to such failure not to believe that it will happen , even in well conducted trials ; " but he considers four successful experiments , which were not performed in secret , as a sufficient answer to that objection .
The experiments above related tend , in his opinion , to confirm his former results ; but he allows that he can prescribe no other means for success than perseverance ; and as Messrs. Fourcroy , Vauquelin , and Richter , have promised to continue their r'esearches on the subject , some great and important fact must , he thinks , issue from their labours .

