Analysis of Corundum , and of some of the Substances which accompany it ; with Observations on the Affinities which the Earths have been supposed to have for each other , in the humid Way .
By Richard Chenevix , Esq. F.R.S. and M.R.LA .
Read May 20 , 1802 .
[ Phil , Trans. 1802 , p. 327 .
] After a detail of several unsuccessful attempts to analyse this stone , which on account of its great hardness is both difficult to pulverize and to be reduced by saline agents , we find an ample description of the process , which was attended with the desired success .
A piece of corundum , weighing 100 grains , was made several times red hot , and plunged into cold water ; it was then pounded , first in a steel , and next in an agate mortar , and thus reduced into an impalpable powder .
This powder was by means of dilute muriatic acid cleared from the ferruginous particles which adhered to it from the steel mortar .
It was then put into a platina crucible with 200 grains of sub-borate of soda , and the mixture was exposed for an hour or two to a violent heat : the glass produced by this fusion was in about twelve hours dissolved , by boiling it in a proper quantity of muriatic acid .
The silica might now have been separated by evaporating the whole to dryness , but it was thought preferable to get rid of all the salts contained in the liquor by a precipitation effected by means of an alkaline carbonate .
The precipitate thus obtained was then redissolved in muriatic acid , and the silica was hence cleared by evaporation .
The remaining liquor was afterwards boiled with potash , by which means the alumina was precipitated .
It was then redissolved by the excess of potash , from which the earth was finally obtained by muriate of ammonia .
A small proportion of iron was separated by muriatic acid .
Both these earths being now washed and dried , were ignited , and thus the exact weight of each was accurately ascertained .
The author paid particular attention to the silica produced in this process ; as Mr. Klaproth , who had formerly analysed this stone , declares that he never found any of this ingredient .
$ Next follow the tables of the contents of six kinds of corundum , viz. the sapphire , the ruby , and the corundum from the Carnatic , from Malabar , from China , and from Ava .
The proportions of the first species are 5silica , 92 alumina , 1 iron , and 1loss .
The proportions of the other kinds do not differ very considerably from these .
The matrices of these stones being more easily fused than the six kinds above mentioned , the usual and well known mode of treatment by potash was found sufficient to render them soluble in acids .
Although this mode be now very familiar to chemists , the author , however , in order to leave no cause for suspicion , describes the process he used with the matrix of the corundum from the peninsula of India .
The results gave 42silica , 37I alumina , 15 lime , 3 iron , and 2 loss , with a trace of manganese .
By similar treatment the various substances contained in this and some other matrices , viz. felspar , fibrolite , and three sorts of thallite , were analysed , and the results are given in tables .
It is remarkable that while all the other substances yield in different proportions the same ingredients as the matrices themselves , the fibrolite was found to consist only of silica and alumina , the quantity of iron it contained being so small as hardly to deserve notice .
In the prosecution of this inquiry Mr. Chenevix observed , that if a quantity of potash be for some time kept in fusion in a platina crucible , the latter will be found to lose some grains of its weight .
The quantity of the metal thus lost he actually found in the potash ; and hence he infers the affinity between these two substances , which affinity , it seems , is made use of by the Spaniards for detecting the platina contained in the ingots of gold sent from their American possessions .
He also has occasion to show that potash which has usually been denominated a fixed alkali is not so , strictly speaking , since there is a degree of heat by which it may be totally volatilized .
In a second part of the paper the author treats of the affinities which the earths are supposed to exercise towards each other when held in solution by acid or alkaline menstrua .
There being a difference of opinion on this subject among some of the most eminent chemists , Mr. Chenevix has repeated many of their experiments , especially those of Guyton de Morveau .
After descanting largely on the probable causes of error in this eminent chemist , as well as in Mr. Kirwan and others , he derives from his results the following general conclusions .
1st .
That there exists an affinity between silica and alumina .
2ndly .
That there exists a very powerful affinity between alumina and magnesia .
3rdly .
That alumina shows an affinity for lime .
4thly .
That Mr. Guyton was mistaken in every instance of affinity between the earths , except in one which had been observed before his experiments ; and that lie has attributed to a cause which does not exist , phienomena that must have resulted from the impurity of his re-agents .
And lastly , That neither the experiments of Mr. Guyton , nor an opinion maintained in an anonymous letter from Freyberg , published in the 4th volume of Mr. Nicholson 's Journal , are sufficient to diminish in any degree the value of that assistance which mineralogy derives from chemical investigation .

