X. Analysis of Corundum , and of some of the Substances which accompany it ; with Observations on the Affinities which the Earths have been supposed to have for each other , in the humiid iWay By Richard Chenevix , Esq. F. R. S. and Mo R. L A. , Read May 20 , 1802o ?
I. SOME kinds of corundum , such as the adamantine spar of China , and the sapphire , have already been analyzed by Mr. KLAPROTH .
This would have rendered any further experiments unnecessary , were it not , that I have had at my disposal many kinds of corundum he did not possess , and also some substances accompanying it , which were unknown before the preceding communication of the Count de BOURNON .
As , from the result of my analyses , it appears that all the different kinds of corundum are nearly similar in their constituent parts , and differ only in their proportions , it would be tedious to mention every experiment I made upon each kind .
I shall therefore confine myself to stating , once for all , such modes of analysis as were employed with stones of a similar nature ; and then present a summary of the results : lastly , I shall conclude with an enquiry into a much contested point , which lately threatened a revolution in docimastic chemistry .
A principal character of corundum in general , as may be found in the Count de BoURNON 's mineralogical description , is extreme hardness ; and thence , the difficulty of reducing that substance into fine powder will be easily conceived .
We are told by docimastic chemists , that the most advantageous method of pulverising hard stones , is to make them red hot ; and , in that state , to plunge them into cold water .
But I found that this operation , when performed but once , was by no means sufficient for corundum .
I therefore repeated it , till the stone appeared to be fissured in every direction .
After this , the specimen to be pulverised was put into a steel mortar , about three-fourths of an inch in diameter , and three inches in depth , into which a steel pestle was very closely adjusted , A few blows upon the pestle caused the stone to crumble ; and the fragments were then easily reduced into an impalpable powder , in an agate mortar , with a pestle of the same material .
The abrasion from the mortar , usual in the pulverization of hard stones , was much diminished by the above precaution ; rubies and sapphires being , in a short time , ground to a powder nearly as minute as the finest precipitate .
Mr. KLAPROTH , in his analysis before mentioned , had observed with how much difficulty the stones were acted upon by potash or soda .
I found that the greatest heat a silver crucible could support , without melting , was not sufficient to produce a satisfactory fusion of one part of corundum , with six , parts of either of those alkalis ; nor did an exposure to that temperature during several hours , seem to render the treatment more effectual .
Not more than half the quantity of the corundum was ever rendered soluble in any acid ; and what remained was the powder of the stone , wholly unchanged .
The repeated filtrations and evaporations with which this treatment must be attended , not only render it tedious , but also produce 328 ' uncertainty in the results .
Even when very finely powdered corundum was exposed , with six times its weight of potash , in a platina crucible , to a heat of 140 ?
of WEDGWOOD , for two hours together , it was not acted upon in such a manner as to be fit for analysis .
From all these experiments I concluded , that some more efficacious mode of rendering corundum soluble in acids was to be sought .
I boiled a great quantity of sulphuric acid upon very finely powdered corundum , in a platina crucible .
But , although the acid , after a great length of time , had dissolved a little of the stone , I did not find this method more satisfactory than the others .
Nitric , muriatic , and nitro-muriatic acids , were less effectual than the sulphuric .
Phosphoric acid , held in fusion with corundum , did not dissolve any notable portion of that stone , or render itsoluble in other acids .
I then had recourse to sub-borate of soda , ( borax , ) which Ifound to answer beyond my expectation .
Two parts of that salt , calcined , and one of corundum , enter into fusion , at a temperature which I judged to be about 80 ?
of WEDGWOOD , ; * and a glass , more or less coloured , is formed. .
This glass is soluble in muriatic acid ; and , by this method , it is easy to obtain a complete solution of corundum .
My general method of operating was as follows .
I took one hundred grains of corundum ; and , having several times made it red hot , and plunged it into cold water , I put it into the steel mortar , and treated it as already mentioned .
I. then poured some very dilute muriatic acid upon it , to wash off whatever iron might have adhered , in consequence of its mechanical action upon the mortar .
After it was dried and weighled , I put it into the agate mortar , and ground it as fine as I could .
The augmentation of weight was then noted ; and was always taken into account in the general result .
I then put the whole into a platina crucible , with 2oo grains of calcined sub-borate of soda , and exposed the mixture for an hour or two to a violent heat .
When the crucible was cool , muriatic acid was boiled upon it and its contents ; and , in about twelve hours , all the glass disappeared .
If I wished to obtain the silica directly , I evaporated the whole to dryness ; but , if otherwise , I precipitated by an alkaline carbonate , and washed the precipitate , in order to get rid of all the salts contained in the liquor .
This latter mode I believe to be preferable .
I then re-dissolved the precipitate in muriatic acid , and evaporated for silica .
But , as corundum contains only a small portion of this earth , there was little or no appearance of jelly .
When the silica was thus precipitated by evaporation , I filtered the liquor , and boiled it with an excess of potash .
By this operation , the alumina was precipitated , and then re-dissolved by the excess of potash , from which it was finally obtained by muriate of ammonia ; the iron which had remained undissolved by the potash , having of course been previously separated from the alumina .
This earth , and the silica , after being washed and dried , were ignited , and thus the weight of both was obtained .
I shall exemplify , in a single instance , this mode of treatment ; and then present the results obtained from the different kinds of corundum .
For this purpose , I shall select the blue perfect corundum , or sapphire , as the stone which has been the most ably analyzed by Mr. KLAPROTH .
From a view of both analyses , the efficacy of the fusion with borax will be evident ; and the results of the several experiments may be compared .
i. loo grains of sapphire , pulverised in the agate mortar , as above stated , had increased to 105 .
These o10 were mixed with 250 of calcined sub-borate of soda , and put into a platina crucible .
They were then exposed to a violent heat for two hours , and afterwards allowed to cool .
The mass was vitrified , and had the appearance of a greenish blue glass , fissured in many directions .
2 .
This glass being strongly attached to the platina crucible , the whole was put into muriatic acid , and boiled for some hours .
By these means , a total and limpid solution was obtained .
3 .
The matter of the stone was next precipitated , by ammonia not entirely saturated with carbonic acid ; the liquor was filtered ; and the precipitate well washed and dried .
It was then redissolved in muriatic acid , and evaporated .
4 .
By this evaporation a precipitate was formed , which , when well washed and ignited , weighed l0,25 grains , and was silica .
5 .
The liquor , together with that which had washed the precipitate , was boiled in a silver vessel , with an excess of potash ; this redissolved all the precipitate , except one grain .
6 .
Muriate of ammonia was poured into the alkaline solution .
( No. 5 .
) The potash expelled the ammonia from the muriatic acid , and , forming muriate of potash , could no longer retain the earth in solution ; a very copious precipitate , therefore , was formed .
This precipitate had all the properties of alumina ; and , when well washed and ignited , weighed 92 grains .
Consequently , deducting 5 from the silica , for the abrasion of the mortar , we shall have for result , Silica 55Alumina 92 Iron -ALoss 1,75 100,00 , 331 The chief difference between these proportions and those established by Mr. KLAPROTH , is in the silica .
That chemist did not find any notable portion of it in the specimens he examined .
This naturally induced me to make a very strict research , into every possible means by which any silica might have been introduced into the results ; whether by the borax , the alkali , or any of the other re-agents I had used .
But , finding very clearly , that none of these substances did contain any , I could no longer hesitate to believe ; that the proportion I have here stated , was actually contained in the sapphire I analyzed .
I am likewise convinced , that no more than the quantity I have mentioned was worn from the agate mortar and pestle ; for my constant practice was , to weigh them , both before and after I had used them , in scales which , when charged with four pounds on each end , turn easily with the tenth part of a grain .
The general results , from all the different kinds of corundum , were as follows .
5,25 92 9I1,75 100,00 .
Corundum from the Carnatic .
-05 NM 01 1,5 1 000 .
Red perfect Corundum , or Ruby .
Silica Alumina Iron Loss Sili 90 i , a low am 1,8 Imperfect Corundum from Malabar .
cIO Alumina Iron Loss 7 86,5 'W gS 4 ~2,5 100,0 .
Blue perfect Corundum , or Sapphire .
Silica Alumina Iron Loss Imperfect Silica Alumina Iron Loss AA Im , , , Imperfect Coru dum from Cbhila .
Imperfect Corundum from Ava .
Silica,25 Silica 6,5 Alumina 86,50 Alumina 87,0 Iron 6,50 o Iron 4,5 Loss 7 2,0 100,00 .
100,0 .
As I could not discover chrome , or any other colouring substance , except iron , in these stones , I can attribute their difference of colour only to the different state of oxidizement of the iron ; but it is impossible to ascertain what that state may be , from so small a quantity .
The matrices of these stones , and the substances accompanying them , are more easily fused than the six kinds of corundum just mentioned .
The usual and well known mode of treatment by potash , was sufficient to render these substances soluble in the acids .
Since the many experiments of KLAPROTH , VAUQUELIN , and others , the mode of analyzing mineral bodies is become so familiar to chemists , that I shall mention particulars with respect to one only of the following substances .
MATRIX OF CORUNDUM FROM THE PENINSULA-OF INDIA .
i. A certain quantity of this matrix was reduced to powder , in the manner already described .
loo grains of it were treated with potash , in a silver crucible : they then afforded a limpid solution in muriatic aid .
The liquor was evaporated ; and , long before the mass was entirely dry , it had assumed the appearance of a jelly .
When the saline matter in the evaporating-dish was dissolved in a slight excess of acid , a white powder remained at MDCCII .
Xx Are .
I v. 7 ?
Y. I t0 bottom , which had all the properties of silica , and , when washed and ignited , weighed 4,5 grains .
2 .
Into the liquor which had served to wash the above powder , I poured ammonia .
A copious precipitate was thus formed , which was separated by filtration , and well washed .
3 .
Carbonate of potash also caused a precipitate in the liquor of No. 2 .
This precipitate was found to be carbonate of lime , and weighed 23,5 grains , = 15 of lime .
4 .
The precipitate of No. 2 .
was redissolved in muriatic acid ; then boiled with an excess of potash , and filtered .
There remained undissolved , 3 grains , which were iron .
5 .
The liquor of No. 4 .
was precipitated by muriate of ammonia , and afforded alumina ; which , being washed and ignited , weighed 37,5 grains .
I could also perceive a trace of manganese .
The proportions therefore are , Silica..42,5 Alumina * 37,5 Lime 15 Iron .
3,0 Loss , with a trace of manganese , o 100,0 .
By a similar treatment , the following substances , contained in this matrix , aforded the under-mentioned results .
Felspar .
Sil ica Alumina Lime Iron Loss 64 __-~ 24 _6,25 m_ - .
2,00 _a3,75 1 00,00 .
Fibrolite .
Silica 38 Alumina 58,2 A trace of iron , and loss 3,75 100,00 .
This is the only stone I have ever met with , that yielded nothing but silica and alumina ; for the quantity of iron was so small as hardly to be taken into account , I have repeated this analysis three times ; and have not found a difference of half a grain .
Thallite in Crystals , with a rough Surface .
Silica 45 Alumina -28 Lime 15 Iron 11 Loss ... 100 , Thallite in Prisms like the Tourmalin .
Silica .
Alumina 5 Lime 1 , Iron 1,5 Loss ... 1000,0 Tballite in Fragments , of afine transparent Tellow Colour ?
Silica 42 Alumina 25,5 Lime -6 Iron 14 Loss , 5 100,0 .
Fibrolite accompanying the Matrix of Corundum from China .
Silica 38 Alumina 46 Iron 13 Loss -3 100 .
Felsparfrom the Sand of Ceylon .
Silica 68 , Alumina,5 Lime 7 Iron,5 Loss,5 100,0 .
As the greater part of the above substances were fusible without difficulty in potash , I preferred using a silver crucible to any other .
It may be laid down as a general rule , with respect to delicate experiments , that in the treatment of metallic substances , we should not use metallic crucibles ; but , in the treatment of earthy bodies , they alone are to be depended upon .
The easily oxidizable metals cannot be employed ; but silver and platina present advantages which no other metals seem to possess .
Theory would certainly give a general preference to platina , from its resistance both to heat and to acids ; and practice will justify this preference , in all but a single instance .
If a quantity of potash be kept for some time in fusion , in a platina crucible , it will be found that the crucible has lost several grains of its weight .
The platina so dissolved may be looked for in the potash ; and , if this be saturated with muriatic acid , and evaporated , we shall find the well-known triple salt , formed by the combination of muriatic acid with potash and oxide of platina .
This action of potash upon platina , does not depend upon any mechanical cause , such as friction , the force that determines it being purely chemical .
If a salt formed by potash , or a salt formed by ammonia , be mixed with a salt of platina , a precipitate ensues , which is a triple salt ; and it is by this method , that the Spanish government detects the platina , in the ingots of gold sent from their American possessions .
It is therefore evident , that an affinity does exist between potash and platina , in a certain state ; and I imagine it to be this affinity , which causes the oxidizement of the platina , when potash is kept in fusion upon ; that metal .
I must however observe , that my crucible was prepared by JANETTY , in Paris , according to a method he has published in the Annals de Chimie ; and that he always : employs arsenic , a little of which certainly remains united to the platina .
What influence arsenic may have , remains to be determined .
Soda does not form a triple salt with the oxide of platina ; for I have frequently kept this alkali in fusion , in .
a platina crucible , for a long time ; yet very little action was produced upon the metal .
This fact seems to corroborate my assertion , that the affinity of potash for oxide of platina , determines the oxidizement of the metal .
Whenever I suspected that platina had been dissolved , I could easily detect the smallest portion of it .
A solution of platina , so dilute as to be nearly colourless , manifests , in a very short time , the colour of a much more concentrate solution , and becomes reddish , by the addition of a solution of tin in muriatic acid .
This I have found to be , by many degrees , the most sensible test for platina ; and it would answer the purposes of the Spanish government , much better than that they usually employ .
The alkalis have no immediate action upon silver ; but I have observed , that crucibles of this metal , after they have been a long time in use , become somewhat more brittle than they were before .
Potash and soda have long been termed fixed alkalis ; and it is certain that , if we compare them with ammonia , they are so .
Butfixed is an absolute term , and cannot admit of degrees .
If potash , such as we obtain from Mr. BERTHOLLET'S method of preparing it , be kept in fusion at a very strong heat , it may be totally volatilized .
The vapour of the alkali may be perceived in the room ; and vegetable colours will undergo the change which is usually produced by alkalis .
Indeed , in preparing Mr. BERTHOLLET'S potash , the vapour of the alkali may be easily perceived .
Soda is not quite so volatile ; though far from being fixed .
It appears also , that a little water increases the volatility of both potash and soda , as happens with boracic acid .
This volatility of potash , has been advantageously applied of late to the art of bleaching .
II .
On the Ainities the Earths have been supposed to haveJbr eaci other , in the humid way .
In the course of the foregoing analysis , I had occasion to make some further observations concerning a subject upon which I had been formerly engaged , namely , on the affinities the earths have been supposed to have for each other , when held in solution by acid or alkaline menstrua .
In the XXVIIIth volume of the Annals de Chimie , page 189 , I published a paper upon the analysis of some magnesian stones .
In this paper , I took notice of the following affinities of the earths for each other , namely , the affinity of alumina for magnesia , of alumina for lime , and of alumina for silica .
In the XXXIst volume , page 246 , there is a memoir , by GUYTON DE MORVEAU , upon a similar subject ; and he there reports some experiments of his own , by which he was induced to think , that the earths do really possess a chemical attraction for one another .
Since that time , the affinity of the earths has been received among chemists as an undoubted fact ; and , at the end of Mr. KIRWAN 's Essay on the Analysis of ' mineral tWaters , we find a list of earthy salts which produce a reaction upon one another , supposed to be caused by an affinity that tends to unite their bases , in the form of a precipitate , insoluble in the acids .
Some other detached observations are to be found , in the Journal de Physique , and in the Annals de CUimie .
The fact is certainly one of the most important in the docimastic art , and merits all the attention of the skilful in that branch .
In the XLth volume of the Annals de Cbimie , page 52 , * He has taken no notice of any of the experiments contained in my paper .
339 DARRACK has published a paper , intended as a refutation of the conclusions drawn by GuY-TON .
I had myself rpeated the greater part of the experiments of the latter ; and the results I obtained were exactly similar to those of DARRACQ .
In fact , I had intended to continue the researches ; but the very satisfactory paper of DARRACQ , appeared to me to render a further prosecution of them totally useless .
However , a paragraph inserted in the Annals de Chimie , ( Tom. XLI .
p. o26 ) and of which GUYTON appears to be the author , shows that he has not derived from the Memoir of DARRACQ , that conviction which it certainly conveys .
The paragraph in question is founded upon a letter , written from Freyberg , by Dr. G. M. to Dr. BABINGTON , dated December 17 , 18oo , and inserted in the IVth volume of NICHOLSON'S Journal , page 51i .
This letter contains an opinion which deserves to be canvassed , as it is not perfectly just ; and the use GUYTON has made of it , has determined me to add my observations to those of DARRACQ .
I shall follow the order of GUYTON 's experiments , in the enumeration of those I made .
Exp. 1 .
From a mixture of lime-water and barytes-water , GUYTON obtained a precipitate .
I obtained none .
Exp. 2 .
A solution of alumina in potash , mixed with a solution of silica in the same , gave a precipitate , after standing some time .
This had been observed by DARRACQ , and by GUYTON , and agrees perfectly with the affinity which , before GUYTON published his paper , I had asserted to exist between these two earths .
Exp. 3 , 4 , 5 .
Lime-water , strontia-water , and barytes-water , produce a somewhat similar effect upon a solution of silica in potashb Exp. 6 .
No precipitate took place from a mixture of baryteswater and strontia-water ; nor from solutions of the carbonates of those earths , in water impregnated with carbonic acid .
Exp. 7 .
GUYTON obtained a precipitate , by mixing solutions of muriate of lime and muriate of alumina .
I could not obtain any .
Exp. 8 .
Solutions of muriate of lime and muriate of magnesia , when mixed , did not afford a precipitate .
Exp. 9 .
Muriate of barytes did not , as GUYTON has asserted , form a precipitate with muriate of lime .
He was right in saying , that muriate of strontia gave no precipitate with muriate of lime .
Exp. io .
Muriate of magnesia and of alumina , afforded me no precipitate .
GUYTON says , that the liquors became milky .
Exp. 1 .
Muriate of magnesia , whether mixed with muriate of barytes or of strontia , afforded me no change ; although GUYTON says he obtained an abundant precipitate , by mixing muriate of magnesia with muriate of barytes .
Exp. 12 .
Muriate of alumina and of barytes , did not , when mixed together , yield any precipitate .
GUYTON asserts , that there is a precipitate in this case .
Exp. i3 .
Muriate of barytes and of strontia , did not form a precipitate .
GUYTON has remarked the same .
Exp. 14 .
From muriate of strontia and of alumina , I obtained no precipitate .
With GUYTON the liquor became milky .
From all these experiments it appears very clearly , that GUYTON has pronounced too hastily , upon the affinity which he supposes barytes to entertain for lime , for magnesia , and for alumina ; and that he is equally in the wrong , with regard to the affinity of strontia and alumina .
With regard to Exp. g , 4 , and 5 , although they appear to be true , yet it would require the respective precipitates to be further examined , before we admit a decided affinity between the earths .
The quantity of carbonic acid also , which must of course combine with the potash , during the treatment of the silica by that alkali , should be taken into account , in considering the cause of the precipitate .
The solutions which I used , of all the above salts , were in the most concentrate state ; therefore , in the state most favourable for showing precipitation , if any had taken place .
It is not very difficult to account for the appearances that deceived Mr. GUYTON in his experiments , and for the cause that produced them .
In one instance , he obtained a precipitate from muriate of lime and of alumina , because , in all probability , the alumina he dissolved in muriatic acid had been precipitated from alum ; and alumina , thus prepared , retains a small portion of sulphuric acid.* In the next place , it is very likely that his solutions were sufficiently concentrate to give a precipitate of sulphate of lime .
The same was the case with regard to his mixture of muriate of strontia with mnuriate of alumina .
As to the general conclusion , that barytes has an affinity for lime , magnesia , and alumina , which strontia does not appear to possess , it is to be explained as follows .
Lime often contains a little sulphate of lime .
Mr. GUYTON'S magnesia , as well as his alumina , had probably been obtained from the sulphate ; and we are indebted to Mr. BERTHOLLET , for the true nature of many similar precipitates .
Barytes is a much more delicate test than strontia , for sulphuric acid ; and , therefore , barytic solutions were affected by quantities of sulphuric acid , which strontia could not render sensible .
This I have ascertained to be the case : for I have obtained copious precipitates , by barytes , in a liquor composed for the purpose , wherein strontia did not produce the smallest cloud , or show the presence of sulphuric acid .
A little care and attention are necessary , in preparing the earths , which are to be dissolved in the muriatic acid , for these experiments ; and , if Mr. GUYTON had taken the requisite precautions , he would not have been led into error .
The object to be kept in view is , to free the earth from sulphuric acid ; and , if this be obtained , there is not the smallest precipitate or cloud , in any of the cases I have mentioned .
If any further proof be necessary , with regard to the cause of precipitates obtained in the manner stated by Mr. GUYTON , I may add , that I have repeated his experiments , and have always found the precipitates to be sulphate of barytes .
The general conclusion to be drawn from the observations of Mr. KIRWAN , already alluded to , is , that barytes has an affinity for lime , magnesia , and aluminia , upon which earths strontia does not seem to have any influence .
But these mistakes are to be accounted for in the same manner as those of Mr. GUYTON , viz. by sulphate of barytes being much less soluble than sulphate of strontia , and therefore showing the presence of a smaller portion of sulphuric acid , or , in other words , being a much more delicate test for that substance .
With regard to the letter already mentioned as being inserted in NICHOLSONs Journal , and which drew some reflections from Mr. GUYTON , it is necessary to examine as much of it as may be thought objectionable .
The author says , that he repeated the experiments of Mr. GUYTON , with an alkaline solution of silica and alumina , and that he obtained a precipitate ; which precipitate , though containing silica , was totally soluble in the acids .
" c Here , " he says , the properties of the silex must be considerably altered .
This " must render all analysis with alkalis suspicious ; and shows on what fallacious grounds the proud dominion of chemistry rests , " which she has exercised so long , in such an arbitrary and over"c bearing manner , in the mineral kingdom .
" This opinion is by no means likely to overthrow the pretensions of chemistry ; for the very circumstance of rendering silica soluble in the acids , is one of the discoveries that has most contributed to render certain , and to extend , our knowledge of analysis .
No earthy substance is now thought fit to be submitted to further experiment , till a complete solution of it in an acid be first obtained ; and , when that solution cannot be effected directly by the acid , it is always attempted by previous fusion with an alkali .
This mode of rendering silica soluble in acids , is no new discovery ; it has been long known ; and the analysis of minerals has never been brought so near to truth , as since it has become an indispensable condition .
I have no doubt as to the fact of a precipitate being formed , by mixing together an alkaline solution of silica and alumina .
Alumina indeed appears to exercise an attraction , as I before stated , for silica , for magnesia , and for lime .
All stones in which there is but little alumina , and a great quantity of silica , leave , after fusion with potash , a light and flocculent substance , which cannot be dissolved by the acids : this substance , however , which is silica , has been in solution in the alkali .
But , if a greater proportion of alumina be present , none of this flocculent precipitate appears ; hence it is evident , that alumina must determine its solution .
Its easy solubility , in the latter case , cannot depend upon the division of the particles of the silica in the stone ; for , in the first place , after being fused with potash , the tenuity of the particles of every stone must be nearly the same ; and , in the next place , I have not observed , that any earth , except alumina , can promote the chemical solution of the silica , though they must all occasion its mechanical division .
Ass to the affinity of alumina for magnesia , it is by much the most powerful of all those which any of the earths have for each other .
I attempted to precipitate magnesia from muriatic acid , by ammonia , even in excess ; but found that the whole muriate of magnesia had not been decomposed , and that a triple salt , or an ammoniacal muriate of magnesia , * had been formed .
I then poured an excess of ammonia into a solution of muriate of magnesia , mixed with a large proportion of a solution of muriate of alumina .
All the earth was precipitated , and nothing remained in solution , except muriate of ammonia , The liquor was then filtered , and the precipitate washed and dried .
I dissolved it in muriatic acid , and boiled it with a great excess of potash .
Some alumina was taken up , but by no means all the quantity that had been used .
The precipitate which had resisted the action of potash , was again dissolved in muriatic acid , and precipitated by carbonate of potash .
The carbonate of magnesia was held in solution by the excess of carbonic acid ; ard , byusing potash and carbonic.acid alternately , ( the first to dissolve alumina , the second to dissolve carbonate of magnesia , ) I effected a separation of the earths .
These experiments show , that there is an affinity between alumina and magnesia , and a certain point of saturation , where the action of potash upon alumina is wholly counteracted by the affinity of that earth for magnesia .
When a solution of potash is boiled upon a mixture of lime and alumina , the alumina is dissolved , together with a much greater portion of lime than can be attributed to the dissolving power of the water alone .
But , if a solution of potash be boiled upon lime , without alumina , no more lime is taken up than would have been dissolved by an equal quantity of water not containing potash in solution ; consequently , alumina seems really to promote the solution of lime in potash .
The affinity of alumina for lime , I had mentioned in the paper to which I allude ; and it has since been noticed by Mr. VAUQUELIN.* If the conclusions of Mr. GUYTON had been well founded , it would have been chemically impossible to arrive at truth in analysis .
There were already real difficulties enough to be overcome ; and Mr. BERTHOLLET has lately discovered some , which are not so easily answered as those I have just considered .
The position of this chemist , however , has been too generally extended by him .
If the power of masses were as great as he represents it to be , and if it increased ad infinitum , in proportion to the mass , it must follow , that , with any given substance , we could decompose any compound , provided the mass of the decompounding body were sufficiently great ; but this is well known not to be the case .
From the experiments which I have related , it appears to be proved .
ist .
That there exists an affinity between silica and alumina .
2dly .
That there exists a very powerful affinity between alumina and magnesia .
Sdly .
That alumina shows an affinity for lime ; but that the said affinity is not so strong as Mr. GUYTON had supposed , nor , if pure reagents be used , is it to be perceived under the circumstances stated by him .
4thly .
That Mr. GUYTON was mistaken in every instance of affinity between the earths , excepting in the case of silica with alumina , which had been observed before his experiments ; and that , in the other cases , he has attributed to a cause which does not exist , phenomena that must have resulted from the impurity of his reagents .
5thly .
That neither the experiments of Mr. GUYTON , nor the opinion maintained in the letter from Freyberg , are sufficient to diminish , in any degree , the value of the assistance mineralogy derives from chemical investigation .

