Observations and Experiments upon oxygenized and hyperoxygenized Muriatic Acid ; and upon some Combinations of the Muriatic Acid in its three States .
By Richard Chenevix , Esq. F.R.S. and M.R.I.A. Read January 28 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 126 .
] The author introduces the subject of his paper by stating that Mr. Berthollet , having observed a large portion of common muriate of potash to be always produced along with the hyperoxygenized muriate , had formed an ingenious conjecture , that the quantity of oxygen , relatively to the acid , was greater in the salt than in disengaged oxygenized muriatic acid ; but that no experiments having appeared since the year 1788 to prove this assertion , he was induced to examine the properties of the salt , and the nature of the acid it contains .
He next mentions such authors as have treated any part of his subject ; and intimates that Mr. Hoyle of Manchester appears to him to be the chemist , who , after Mr. Berthollet , has approached nearest to the truth .
He then proceeds to describe the means by which he has determined that the acid contained in his hyperoxygenized muriate of potash is , in fact , an acid sui generis ; and those by which he arrived at the proportion of oxygen .
After which he treats of the saline combinations of oxygenized and hyperoxygenized muriatic acids .
To determine the proportion of oxygen in hyperoxygenized muriatic acid , he distilled one hundred grains of hyperoxygenized miuriate of potash in a coated glass retort , and collected one hundred and twelve cubic inches of oxygen gas , =_ 38"3 grains .
He then precipitated by nitrate of silver the salt which remained in the retort , and a small portion of it that had been volatilized into the tube , and obtained a quantity of muriate of silver , corresponding with twenty of muriatic acid ; and hence he concluded that one hundred parts of hyperoxygenized muriatic acid contained , Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
65 Muriatic acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
35 100 He then passed a current of oxygenized muriatic acid through a solution of potash , and distilled the liquor to dryness in an apparatus , by which he could ascertain whether there was any disengagement or absorption of oxygen from the liquor or from the salt it held in solution .
No oxygen was disengaged or absorbed ; and hence it appears that the same quantity was now condensed in the hyperoxygenized muriate of potash as was originally contained in a relative quantity of oxygenized muriatic acid .
The salt thus obtained , Mr. Chenevix , for the sake of brevity , calls entire salt .
He analysed it , and found it to contain common muriate of potash 84 , hyperoxygenized iruriate 16 .
But by the proportions established above , 16 hyperoxygenized muriate contain 6 of oxygen , and this , with the acid contained in the whole 100 of entire salt , gives the proportions , Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 16 Muriatic acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
84 100 These proportions differ a little from those obtained by Mr. Berthollet and by Mr. Cruikshank ; the former mentions 11 per cent. of oxygen , the latter 43 .
But Mr. Berthollet , in all probability , used an acid which already contained a little simple muriatic acid , or else he did not expel all the oxygen from his oxygenized muriatic acid by the light of the sun .
And Mr. Cruikshank having made use of hyperoxygenized muriate of potash and muriatic acid , to obtain that which he examined , the result was a mixture of oxygenized and hyperoxygenized muriatic acid gases .
Having stated the proportions of the acids , the author passes on to the examination of the salts .
Oxygenized muriates are decomposed at the very moment of their formation , and are resolved into common muriates.and hyperoxygenized muriates .
To prove this , Mr. Chenevix asserts that he always obtained the same proportion of muriate of silver , by pouring some nitrate of that metal into the recent liquor of the entire salt , as into some that he had evaporated .
But he concludes that the acid does really come into contact with the alkali , and unite with it , in the state of oxygenized muriatic acid , because ammonia is decomposed by a current of that acid ; and ammonia ( as is afterwards proved ) is not decomposed either by common or by hyperoxygenized muriatic acid .
From this experiment he concludes also , that hyperoxygenized muriatic acid has a much greater affinity than oxygenized muriatic acid to the salifiable bases .
Mr. Chenevix then passes to the examination of the hyperoxygenized muriates .
These are all formed by the resolution of the elements of oxygenized muriates into common muriates and hyperoxygenized muriates .
They have properties that characterize them fully .
The acid is expelled by all acids , except the benzoic , acetic , acetous , boracic , prussic , and carbonic ; and the order of affinity of the salifiable alkaline and earthy bases is potash , soda , barytes , strontia , lime , ammonia , magnesia , alumina , and silica .
The first species is , therefore , hyperoxygenized muriate of potash , which the author thinks can exist in two states .
It was from this salt chiefly that he attempted to disengage the acid .
If sulphuric acid be poured upon it , a crackling noise is heard , and an orange-coloured liquor , with greenish yellow fumes , is disengaged ; but the acid cannot thus be obtained pure , as the heat necessary to bring it over is sufficient to decompose it .
In attempting to distil this mixture a violent explosion ensued as soon as heat was applied .
As a caution to those who would repeat the experiment , Mr. Chenevix describes an accident which happened to Dr. Vandier , by which that gentleman was dreadfully wounded , and was near losing his sight : by dropping the salt into sulphuric acid there is less danger of explosion at the beginning ; but still the acid does not come over without decomposition .
By cooling the first receiver with ice , theauthor thinks that he has obtained the acid in the form of little orange-coloured octahedral crystals .
Nitric acid produces nearly the same phenomena .
Muriatic acid decomposes the salt , and takes a part of the oxygen from the hyperoxygenized muriatic acid , and becomes oxygenized .
Phosphoric , tartareous , oxalic , arsenic , and citric acids decompose this salt with the help of heat .
Some attempts were made to combine diamond with oxygen , in the humid way , by means of this salt and this acid ; but they did not prove successful .
Caloric is mentioned as a considerable ingredient in this as in all hyperoxygenized muriates .
The proportions of the salt are , Hyperoxygenized muriatic acid ... ... . .
58*3 Potash ... ... ... .
39-2 Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2-5 100.0 The second species is hyperoxygenized muriate of soda .
This salt Mr. Chenevix obtained pure by crystallizing in alcohol .
It is decomposed by the same agents as the former species .
It is deliquescent .
Its proportions are , Hyperoxygenized muriatic acid ... ... . .
66-2 Soda ... ... ... ... ... . .
29-6 Water ... ... ... 4-2 100-0 A distinguishing character of the earthy hyperoxygenized muriates is their resemblance to their respective muriates , in point of solubility .
The author at first despaired of being able to separate them from the muriates which accompany their formation ; but phosphate of silver afforded him the means .
Phosphate of silver decomposes all simple muriates , and the hyperoxygenized muriates remain alone in solution .
It was thus he obtained them pure enough for analysis .
He found the following proportions in each salt : Third species .
Hyperoxygenized muriate of barytes .
Hyperoxygenized muriatic acid ... ... . .
47'0 Barytes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
42-2 W ater ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 10-8 100.0 Fourth species .
Hyperoxygenized muriate.of strontia .
Hyperoxygenized muriatic acid ... ... ... .
46 Strontia ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 26 TWater ... ... ... ... ... . .
28 100 Fifth species .
Hyperoxygenized muriate of lime .
Hyperoxygenized muriatic acid ... .^ ... .
55'2 Lime ... ... ... ... ... ... 28 3 Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
16-5 100.0 The sixth species of hyperoxygenized muriate of ammonia cannot be formed by direct combination .
By pouring a solution of carbonate of ammonia into a solution of any of the earthy hyperoxygenized muriates , the earth is precipitated with the carbonic acid , and hyperoxygenized muriate of ammonia remains in the liquor .
This salt is decomposed at a low temperature , and has all the characters of the genus to which it belongs .
It is a very striking example of the force of co-operating affinities which can unite this acid with ammonia ; while oxygenized muriatic acid decomposes that alkali .
It is also a proof of the different attractions exercised by these two acids toward the salifiable bases .
Hyperoxygenized muriate of magnesia is the seventh species .
Its proportions are , Hyperoxygenized muriatic acid ... ... . .
60*0 Magnesia ... ... ... .
25 7 Water ... ... ... ... .
14-3 100-0 The author has not determined the proportions of the eighth species , viz. hyperoxygenized muriate of alumina , because this salt was always decomposed by phosphate of silver ; and he imagines that hyperoxygenized muriate of silica does not exist .
He then states some corrections which he has made in the proportions of common muriates , respecting the quantity of water they contain .
This he esteems to have been rated too high by the chemists who have examined them .
He exposed a given weight of muriate of potash to a red heat , and examined it to know if any of the acid had been expelled .
Some portion had been volatilized , and upon this correction he established the proportions he has announced in this paper .
He then passes to the metallic salts of this genus , a number of which he has formed by passing a current of oxygenized muriatic acid through water , in which the oxide was suspended .
Copper , iron , lead , and silver , he readily combined with the acid .
The last of these salts he considers with greater attention for two reasons : first , because it affords a very striking difference between the hyperoxygenized and common muriatic acids ; and , secondly , on account of its extraordinary properties .
This salt is soluble in three parts of water , crystallizes by cooling , is not affected by light , but is decomposed by all the weak acids , even vinegar .
Rubbed in a mortar with about three-fourths of sulphur , it detonates by a very gentle pressure , and with so much violence that Mr. Chenevix estimates the expansive force at nearly ten times that of a mixture of sulphur and hyperoxygenized muriate of potash .
He then states two extraordinary and unforeseen productions of this acid : one was during an analysis of manachanite from Botany Bay , in which oxygen had passed from oxide of titanium into a combination of potash with muriatic acid , and formed hyperoxygenized muriate of potash ; and the other was in distilling nitro-muriatic acid upon platina .
He tried the action of manganese in the same manner as the titanium , but could not succeed ; nor did nitric acid convert oxygenized into hyperoxygenized muriatic acid .
Mr. Chenevix states that Mr. Berthollet had proposed to consider muriatic acid as the radical of the other two , and says that oxygenized muriatic acid corresponds with nitrous and sulphureous acids , and hyperoxygenized muriatic acid with nitric and sulphuric .
Our author states the arguments in favour of the old and the new mode of denomination ; and upon the consideration that many bodies called acids have not been proved to contain oxygen , and that of some the contrary has been demonstrated , he seems inclined to think that an impartial hearing of both sides of the question must , in the present state of chemical knowledge , decide in favour of Muriatic radical , or some ) FMuriatic acid 1Muriatic acid ; word of the same import , [ [ Muriatous acid , &gt; instead of &lt; Oxygenized muriatic acid ; Muriatic acid , [ J Hyperoxygenized muriaf JL acid .

