Analysis of the Arseniates of Copper , and of Iron , described in thepreceding Paper ; likewise an Analysis of the red octaedral Copper Ore of Cornwall ; with Remarks on some particular Modes of Analysis .
By Richard Chenevix , Esq. M.R.I.A. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 5 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 193 .
] After having perused the accurate detail of the external characters and crystalline varieties by which Count de Bournon , in a paper he lately communicated to the Society , identified the several species of the ores mentioned in the title , the mineralogist will surely be gratified to find in this , which may be considered as a continuation of the Count 's treatise , an elaborate analytical investigation , whereby not only the above-mentioned classification is fully confirmed , but also some progress is made in the theory of the docimastic art .
After pointing out the principal imperfection of this art , and in what manner more precision is likely to be obtained , both as to the processes and the terms used in describing them , Mr. Chenevix enters into a full detail of the mode in which he proceeded in his inquiry , and of the many precautions he used in order to obviate every possible deception .
The results , he repeatedly declares , have been to him singularly satisfactory , as they fully evince that great confidence can be placed in the crystallographical arrangement , and that in fact the evidence obtained by the two modes reciprocally contribute to confirm the inferences derived from each .
These results , as far as they relate to the arseniates of copper , are briefly these : The natural arseniate of copper exists in three different states of combination ; the first containing 14 , the second 21 , and the third 28 per cwt .
of the arsenic acid .
Each of these may contain different proportions of water , either as constituting a hydrate , or as water of crystallization .
Upon losing their water they generally pass from a blue to a pale green colour , and finally to brown .
On'e species only , being the first of the Count 's classification , can be considered as *a real arseniate of copper ; the others , from the quantity and combination of the water they contain , being more properly arseniates of hydrate of copper .
This first species is not to be put on the same footing with the others ; since , by admitting a due proportion of water , it would , by calculation , be reduced to a lower class than that which it really occupies .
Lastly , the proportion of acid in each of the species except No. 2 .
is here assigned .
And as to this last-mentioned species , it is observed , that it is to be considered as a particular variety , consisting of a much greater proportion of oxide , with a less quantity of water , combined with nearly the same proportion of arsenic acid .
After having carefully examined the natural arseniates , Mr. Chenevix paid some attention to a few artificial ones , being precipitates from nitrate of copper , by an arseniate of ammonia .
And here he found very different proportions of the ingredients , the arsenic acid in one species being no less than 40 per cent. Hence we gather , that only two simple ingredients , combined in four different proportions , produce no less than eleven different species or combinations , which are now determined both by external and chemical characters .
Speaking next of the arseniates of iron , Mr. Chenevix observes , that they have but lately been distinguished from those of copper .
One species , in fact , contains a sufficient proportion of this last metal to merit the name of cupreous arseniate of iron .
This proportion was 27 5 of iron to 22 5 of copper , both in the oxide state ; the arsenic acid amounting to 33 5 , whilst 12 of water and 3 of silica made up within II the 100 parts on which the experiment was tried .
The proportions of what is properly called the arseniate of iron were 45 oxide of iron , 9 oxide of copper , 31 arsenic acid , 10 water , and 4 silica .
Upon this ore are often seen certain crystals of a cubic form and of a deep brownish red , which , according to Count de Bournon , are in a state of decomposition .
These were found to contain but little acid or water , probably owing to their decomposition .
Artificial arseniates of iron , produced by the decomposition of green and red sulphate of iron by arseniate of ammonia , were next examined .
The ingredients of the green arseniate were found to be , 43 oxide of iron , 38 arsenic acid , and 19 water ; and of the red arseniate , 36-5 oxide of iron , 41*5 arsenic acid , and 20 water .
Observing in the course of these experiments a great variety of appearances assumed by the combinations of iron with salts , the oxygen , and other ingredients , the author enters into a curious inquiry on this subject ; from which he deduces , in particular , the great variety of colours exhibited by that metal in divers stones or fossils , in which that variety , he infers , is derived from the different degrees of oxygenation of the iron .
In a third section the author enters into an analysis of a red octaedral copper ore found in Cornlwall , of which he had occasion to examine several specimens in the preceding investigation .
After describing several fruitless attempts , chiefly by means of acids , to decompose this ore , he had recourse to a process to which he was led by some instances he had before observed , in which a mixture of two compounds of the same ingredients , but in different proportions , remained insoluble , while a third substance seemed to operate upon at least one of these two compounds , and to produce the decomposition that was aimed at .
The following is the manner in which he explains this operation:-When a metallic oxide A , for instance , containing 25 per cent. of oxygen , is in contact with the metallic oxide B , containing 10 per cent. , they will each remain quiescent in their respective states : but if a solvent C , for which the substance B has no affinity at 10 per cent. of oxygen , but a powerful one at 15 or 20 per cent. , comes to be added , then may the oxide A lend a part of its oxygen to B , in order to enable it to combine with the solvent C. Thus when phosphoric acid had dissolved all it could of the pulverised ore , its oxygen in the part undissolved was concentrated , as it were , to the amount of about 20 per cent. ; and all that which could not be dissolved , would , through a twofold affinity of copper for oxygen to the amount of 20 per cent , , and of phosphoric acid for the oxide of copper of that degree of oxidation , yield up its entire share of oxygen , to favour the combinations which took place in the new order , the only one which could exist among the substances now present .
From the variety of experiments founded upon this reasoning , it has been gathered , that the copper in this ore contains much less oxygen than has ever been suspected in any oxide of copper ; and that , from the quantity of the copper which was precipitated in the metallic state by iron , it appears to be combined in the proportion of only 1 1^ per cent. , the rest being pure copper , -a state of metallic concentration of which no instance has as yet been observed in nature .
It is lastly suggested , that , considering not only the great purity of this ore , but also the singular facility with which this usefulmetal may be extracted from it , it will be found much superior to every copper ore hitherto discovered .
It contains no iron and no sulphur ; the absence of which latter is a peculiar advantage .
It is hence strongly recommended to the proprietors of mines to be particularly attentive to this ore , which is said not to be uncommon in some parts of Cornwall , whereby they are likely not only to further their private advantage , but may also materially contribute to .
promote the public utility .

