PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
1832-1833 No. 13 .
Report , drawn up by Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. M.A. , F.R.S. , on Mr. Faraday 's paper , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity : ?
Third Series .
" Report . ?
VII .
Identity of Electricities from different Sources . ?
VIII .
Relation , by measure , of Common and Voltaic Electricity.1 ' In order to prove the identity of electricities derived from different sources , the author in this communication , after viewing the phenomena exhibited by electricity , shows , that although some effects are most readily derived from a particular source , yet none are peculiar to such source .
The principal points in which ordinary and voltaic electricity have been considered to differ , are the inefficiency of ordinary electricity to produce chemical decomposition , or to affect a magnetic needle like voltaic electricity .
The experiments of Wollaston^ were made early in the application of electricity to chemical decomposition , before the general law of the transfer of the elements to the poles ot the battery had been indicated ; yet his 4th experiment , in which electricity from the machine was passed through a solution of sulphate of copper , and his 5th , where it was passed through a so ?
lution of corrosive sublimate , have the true characteristic of decom ?
position by voltaic electricity : and it is surprising that those who advocate a distinction between these electricities should have ventured to overlook these experiments , when they bring forward the experiment of the decomposition of water , as deficient in this charac ?
teristic of the transfer of the elements * .
This circumstance , however , induced Mr. Faraday not merely to repeat Wollaston 's 4th experiment , which he did with complete success , but to adopt different arrangements ; and by these , with ordinary electricity , he obtained , in various instances , chemical decompositions having all the charac ?
ters of decomposition by voltaic electricity .
Whatever doubt , therefore , may have been thrown upon this part of the subject , he has en ?
tirely removed it .
The author has also removed the doubts which it appears had been entertained respecting the conclusion of M.Colladon , in consequence of the failure of his experiments in the hands of others .
By a parti ?
cular arrangement connected with the glass enclosing the galvanome ?
ter , and by retarding the passage of the electricity through its wires , by means similar to those by which gunpowder is most successfully exploded by an electric discharge * , which he also employed to effect chemical decomposition , Mr. Faraday succeeded in causing the needle to deviate , both by the discharge of a battery , and by electricity pass ?
ing directly from the conductor of the machine .
In justice toM .
Colladon , we must remark , that the account which he gives of his experiments affords no reasonable ground for doubting the accuracy of his conclusions : the details are clear , and the numerous results unequivocal f. We may also notice , that , in the same memoir , M. Colladon gives an account of some very interesting experiments , made with a similar arrangement , on the magnetical effects of atmospherical electricity , by which its power of causing deviations of the needle is satisfactorily established .
Mr. Faraday , in the comparison which he makes between the effects produced by ordinary and by voltaic electricity , shows that the following , though differing in degree , are common to both , viz. attraction and repulsion , evolution of heat , magnetism , chemical decomposition , physiological phenomena , the spark .
To these proofs of the identity of the electricities from these sources may be added , that batteries have been charged from the voltaic pile , and that the shock from a battery so charged could not be distinguished from that of the same battery charged to the same extent from the conductor of a machine J. We consider that this alone is strong evidence in favour of the iden ?
tity of the electricities , although we do not quite agree with Van Marum that it is conclusive .
The effects hitherto obtained from magneto-electricity , the author considers to be , evolution of heat , magnetism , physiological phenomena , the spark .
He has not himself effected chemical decomposition by means of it ; and he considers that the effects which have been obtained by others do not show true polar decomposition , but are similar to those obtained by Wollaston in the decomposition of water .
That magnetism and physiological phenomena are the only effects which have yet been obtained by means of thermo-electricity , the author attributes to its low degree of intensity .
Mr. Faraday considers that the identity of the electricity of the torpedo with common and voltaic electricity is satisfactorily esta ?
blished , although some effects , attraction and repulsion , dueto a state of tension , evolution of heat , and the spark , have not yet been obtained : and in this we fully concur .
The general conclusion which the author draws from the collection of facts which he brings forward , is , that " electricity , whatever may be its source , is identical in its nature ; " and he attributes the difference in the degree to which the phenomena , when originating in different sources , are observed , to the variable circumstances of quantity and intensity .
This manner of accounting for the difference in the phenomena due to voltaic and to common electricity was adopted very early in the inquiry , common electricity being considered as ex* For this method of ignition we are indebted to Mr. W. Sturgeon .
Phil. Mag. 1826 .
f Annals de Chimie , 1826 , tom .
xxxiii .
p. 62 .
X Annals de Chimie , 1802 , tom .
xl .
p. 289 .
ceeding in intensity , but deficient in quantity .
We however think , that it would be more in accordance with the phenomena to state , that as some effects require continuous action , they can only be obtained from ordinary electricity by rendering the quantity accumulated on a given surface ( which quantity is a measure of the inten ?
sity , ) available as a source of such action .
Although we agree with the author in the conclusions which he draws respecting the identity of electricities , yet there is one point , the mode of their conduction , in which they have been said to differ , on which we wish that he had made some remarks .
The current of voltaic electricity runs through the mass of the conducting wire , and its intensity is diminished by increasing the length of that wire ; and the same is the case with magneto-electric currents : but common electricity , in a state of tension , resides at or near the surface of a body , and has been considered to be so conducted * ; and the shock has been found not to be diminished by the length of the wire through which it takes place .
We would however ask , whether it is not a gratuitous assumption to state that electricity is conducted on the surface , because it exists there in a state of tension ?
That it exists near the surface when in a state of tension , is due to the repulsive force which its particles exert upon each other ; and when they are relieved from tension , will not the same repulsive force spread them through the mass of the conducting body ?
With regard to the shock from a battery not being diminished by the length of the wire through which it takes place , does it not arise from the same quantity of electricity on a given surface being passed , when the equilibrium is re ?
stored , between the outside and inside of the battery , whatever may be the length of the conducting wire ?
We regret that the author 's attention was not drawn to this part of the subject ; for we feel assured , that had it been so , he would have met the objections which on this ground have been urged against the identity of the electricities .
Possibly he was so fully convinced of the futility of these objections , that he considered it unnecessary to notice them .
The second section of this paper details experiments for determining the relation , by measure , of common and voltaic electricity .
The author first determines that the magnetical effect of a given quantity of common electricity from a battery is independent of the surface over which it is spread ; and next , that this effect is proportional to the absolute quantity of electricity .
The measures by the galvanometer are not professedly very accurate ; but it is to be ex ?
pected that experiments more accurate in this respect , and more va ?
ried with regard to the quantity of electricity , would confiim these conclusions .
Determining , then , the quantity of voltaic electricity which in a given time will produce the same deflection of the needle as a given quantity of common electricity discharged from:i battery , he shows that voltaic electricity of the same intensity will also , in that time , produce the same degree of chemical decomposition which that quantity of common electricity will when passed from the con* Phil. Trans. 1832 , p. 280 , v ductor .
Although we are not quite satisfied with this manner of comparing the effects , because we consider that time enters very differently as an element in the several cases , yet we are sensible of the value of the experiments , and think that they strongly confirm the author 's conclusions as to the identity of electricities from different sources .
This series of experimental researches in electricity , we consider , makes a very valuable addition to Mr. Faraday 's former ones ; and we have no hesitation in recommending its publication in the Transactions of the Royal Society .
S. H. Christie .
14th March 1833 .

