" Discussion of the Magnetical Observations made by Captain Back , R.N. , during his late Arctic Expedition .
By Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. The author , having been consulted by Captain Back , previous to the departure of the latter , in 1833 , with the expedition for the relief of Captain Ross , respecting the nature of the magnetical observations which it might be desirable to make in the regions he was about to visit , and considering thatv with a view to the attainment of the principal object of the expedition , the greatest economy of time in making these observations was of the first importance , limited his suggestions , in the first instance , to the methods proper to be employed for determining the direction and the dip of the needle , but more especially the latter .
Captain Back , immediately on his return , placed all his magnetical observations at the disposal of Mr. Christie , who having since completed their reduction , gives , in the present paper , the results of his labours .
The first part of the paper reiates to the observations of the Dip of the magnetic needle .
With a view to economize as much as possible the time consumed in making each observation , the process of inverting the poles of the needle , which is usually resorted to in each instance , was here dispensed with .
But in order that the dip may be determined independently of this operation , it is necessary not only that the position of the centre of gravity of the needle employed should be ascertained , but that it should be permanent .
In giving an account of the observations made to verify this condition , the author commences with those at Fort Reliance , which was the first winter station of the expedition ; and where the dip was determined by observations of the needle , both with direct and also with inverted poles .
The author then enters upon an investigation of formulae for the determination of the dip by means of a needle , in which the value of a certain angle , denoted by the symbol y , determining the position of the centre of gravity , has been ascertained ; and , conversely , for the determination oi the value of the same angle , or , which is equivalent to it , the posi ?
tion of the centre of gravity of the needle , when the dip at the place of observation is given .
He next inquires whether any tests can be applied to the observations under discussion , which may indicate the extent of the errors by which the results deduced from them may be affected ; and he employs for this purpose the values of the terrestrial magnetic intensity furnished by certain equations obtained in the preceding investigation ; making the proper allowances , first , for the needles used being ill adapted to this method of determining the re ?
lative intensities ; secondly , for errors of observation in determining the times of vibration of the needle ; and thirdly , for disturbing causes which might affect the observations .
Considerable differences were found to exist in the results obtained by the two methods , at New York , Montreal , Fort Alexander , Montreal Island , and Fort Ogle ; differences which can be accounted for only by errors in the assumed magnitude of the angle y , and which , consequently , indicate the want of permanence in that angle .
It was necessary , therefore , to inquire what changes in the angle y will account for these discrepancies , and how far the value of the dip , thus obtained , may be affected by them .
Formulae are then deduced by which these changes may be determined .
From a comparison of the observed and computed values of the angles involved in these investigations , the author infers that the differences between those of one of these angles are , with a t'ew exceplions , contained within the limits of the errors incident to dip observations : but with respect to the other angle , they in general exceed those limits .
Upon the whole , he concludes that the discrepancies which appear between the values of the terrestrial intensity , as deduced from the times of vibration of the needle , and from the observed angles of inclination to the horizon , are principally attributable to a want of absolute permanence in its axis of motion .
In the present case , the centre of gravity of the needle being nearly coincident with the axis , a very minute dernngement in that axis would cause a considerable change in the value of the angle y ; so that the existence of differences in the values of this angle do not warrant the inference that the needle itself received any serious injury during the expedi ?
tion ; to which , indeed , from the care taken of it by Captain Back , it could not well have been liable .
The second part of the paper relates to the observations of the va ?
riation of the magnetic needle , which are already published in Capt. Back 's narrative , and which are here introduced for the purpose of applying them , in conjunction with the observations of the dip , detailed 2n in the preceding part , to a formula deduced from theory , with the view of ascertaining how far they may tend to support that theory .
The third section is devoted to the comparison of the observations of the dip and variation of the needle with theoretical results of a more general kind .
The observations made by Captain Back are peculiarly adapted for verifying the hypotheses on which the theories of terrestrial magnetism rest , and that theory , in particular , which as ?
sumes the existence of two magnetic poles , symmetrically situated in a diameter of the earth , and near to its centre : for , on this hypothesis , the poles of verticity and of convergence will coincide ; and the tan ?
gent of the dip will be equal to twice the tangent of the magnetic latitude .
In no case has a progress towards the magnetic pole been made so directly , and to such an extent , as in the present expedition ; whether that point be considered as the point of convergence of magnetic meridians , or that at which the direction of the force is vertical .
It .
is deducible from the theory that the product of the tangent of the dip by the tangent of the polar distance is equal to two : and therefore , if the distance of the pole of convergence from two stations be determined by means of the observed variations at those stations , we may estimate , by the approximation of this product to the number two , in each case , the degree of coincidence which exists between theory and observation .
A table is then given , exhibiting the several data on which this comparison is made , and the results deduced from them .
From an inspection of the numbers in the column which indicate the deviations from theory it appears that there is not , in general , that accordance between the observations and the theory which might reasonably have been expected ; and that although that theory may serve as a first approximation , yet it requires to be considerably modified to reconcile it with the observations .
Hence the author arrives at the general conclusion that , unless considerable errors have crept into the observations of either the dip or the variation , the theoretical pole of verticity does not coincide with the pole of convergence , even when the positions of these points are deduced from observations made at very limited distances from those poles .

