On the Laws of the Deviation of Magnetized Needles towards Iron .
By Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. &amp; -c .
Read June 5 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 325 .
] The author had pointed out , several years ago , the law of deviation of a magnetized needle , ( either freely suspended or constrained to move in any particular plane , ) from its natural position , by the influence of masses of iron in its vicinity .
This law was founded on the hypothesis that the iron attracted both the poles of the needle : the position of which , resulting from this action , might be determined by that of an imaginary minute magnetic needle , freely suspended by its centre of !
gravity , reduced to the plane of revolution .
The author had considered this law as fully established from its accordance with experiment ; but Mr. Barlow , in a paper which was published in the last volume of the Philosophical Transactions , denies that such an accordance exists , and infers , from the results of some experiments which he made on horizontal needles , having their magnetism unequally distributed in their two branches , that the theory on which the preceding law is founded is fallacious .
In opposition to the views of Mr. Barlow , the author contends that the phenomena observed are precisely those which must result from the theory he had himself adopted ; and that they tend in no way to support the hypothesis of their being simply the effects of the magnetic power which the iron receives by induction from the earth .
The author was also led to suspect the accuracy of another conclusion which had been drawn by Mr. Barlow , namely , that the length of the needle had no sensible influence upon the extent of its deviations .
In order to determine this point , he began by ascertaining more scrupulously than had yet been done , the values of several of the elements of the calculation , such as the exact positions of the points where the intensity of the magnetism is the greatest , and also of the point of neutrality , or of the magnetic centre ; and he next subjected to a more severe scrutiny a law which had been regarded as established by experiment ; namely , that the tangent of the deviation is proportional to the rectangle of the cosine of the longitude , into the sine of the double latitude of the position of the centre of the needle , with relation to the mass of iron as referred to a hollow sphere .
In the course of his experiments the author ascertained that if any bar of steel , uniformly magnetized by the method of double touch , have this state of magnetism disturbed by drawing the end of a magnet from its centre to the end , having the same polarity as that applied to it , then the pole at that end will be shifted towards the centre , while the opposite pole will be removed further from it , and a corresponding change will occur in the position of the magnetic centre .
Changes will also take place in the absolute intensities of the magnetism at each pole .
Considerable differences were observed in the extent of the deviations of a needle six inches in length , and of one of two inches long , when successively placed in the same position with relation to the shell of iron .
At the distance of 16 8 inches they amounted to more than two degrees and a half ; and the difference continued to be very sensible even at a distance of 24 inches from the shell .
In general when the needles were near to the north or south of the centre of the shell , the deviations of the longer needle exceeded those of the shorter ; and the reverse took place when the needles were placed on the east and west sides .
Hence he concludes that the efficacy of a small mass of iron placed near to the needle to serve as a compensation to the effects of more distant masses , will depend upon its being itself at such a distance from the needle as that the difference of its action upon a long and a short needle shall be insensible .
The author proceeds to deduce from thelaw which he has proposed various forms of equations for deterrmining the deviations of a horizontal-needle due to the action of an iron sphere or shell applicable to different circumstances and conditions of the case .
In one set of equations , actions and resulting positions are referred to three rectangular co-ordinates proceeding from the centre of the needle ; and in another set they are referred to polar co-ordinates relative to the vertical and to the plane of the horizon .
He next deduces equations for computing the deviations of a needle in which the mag- .
netism has been disturbed by applying to one of its poles the corresponding pole of a magnet .
He then proceeds to the detail of experiments for investigating the above-mentioned laws , and to their comparison with .
the results deduced from theory .
These experiments appear to him to establish , beyond all doubt , the influence which the length of a needle has on its deviations , produced by the attraction of the shell of iron .
When examined by the test of the formulae given by the author , the law of the tangent of the deviation being proportional to the rectangle of the cosine of the longitude into the sine of the double latitude on which so much dependence had been placed , is found to give results so inconsistent with one another , that it cannot be considered as even affording an approximation to the truth , and must therefore be wholly rejected .
The close agreement which the author found between the observed and the computed deviations of needles , whose magnetism had been disturbed by contact with a magnet , as well as those which had suffered no disturbance , fully confirmed the author in the views which he originally took of the action of iron on magnetized needles .
He conceives that his hypothesis , instead of being at variance with observation , is not only consistent with all the experiments that have been made , but by affording the proper corrections to be applied to them , derives the strongest support from these observations .
He concludes by mentioning a fact which he conceives to be irreconcilable with the hypothesis of induced magnetism ; namely , that a steel bar , rendered as hard as it was possible to make it , produced , when its ends are reversed , precisely the same effect on the needle as a bar of the softest iron under similar circumstances .

