On the Magnetism of Iron arising from its Rotation .
By Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. M.A. of Trinity College , Cambridge ; Fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society ; of the Royal Military Academy .
Communicated April 20 , 1825 , by J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read May 12 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 347 .
] The effects observed and described in this paper , although minute in themselves , appear , in the author 's opinion , to point out a species of magnetic action not hitherto described .
It had long been well known that striking , twisting , or filing iron in different directions with regard to the magnetic axis , materially influenced its polarity ; but it does not appear to have been remarked , that the simple rotation of iron in different directions has any such influence .
This , however , the author has ascertained to be the case ; and that the laws which govern this peculiar action are so regular , that there can remain no doubt of a corresponding regularity in their causes .
The attention of the author was first drawn to these phenomena by some apparent anomalies in the magnetic action of an iron plate on the compass , observed in the course of a different investigation .
In order to avoid or allow for the disturbing influence of partial magnetism in the iron , it became necessary to attend minutely to the position of certain points in its circumference , which corresponded to the maxima and minima of this magnetism .
It was then found that these points were not constant , but shifted their position as the plate was made to revolve in its own plane ; or , in other words , that a plate which , in a given position , produced a certain deviation in a compass , no longer produced the same deviation after making an exact revolution in its own plane , although brought to rest , and every part of the apparatus restored precisely to its former place .
It appeared from this that the revolution of the plate in its own plane had an influence on its power of deviating the needle independent of the partial magnetism of particular points in it ; and the justice of this idea was proved by giving it a rotation in an opposite direction , when the effect on the directive power was also reversed .
The change produced by rotation in the directive power of the plate was found to be a maximum when its plane was parallel to the line of dip , or the magnetic axis , and at the same time as little inclined to the horizon as this condition would allow ; but when the plane of the plate was parallel to the horizon , the effect was diminished in the ratio of 5 to 1 ; and when perpendicular to the horizon , and coincident with the magnetic meridian , was altogether destroyed .
The author having satisfied himself of the reality and constancy of this effect in different plates , and of the necessity of referring it to a peculiar agency of the earth 's magnetic power on the molecules of the plate , proceeded to ascertain the laws , and measure the quantities of the deviation due to rotation ( so he terms it ) in various positions , and details a great number of experiments , with their numerical results arranged in the form of tables .
From these he deduces the following general law ; viz. That the deviation due to rotation in a dipping-needle " ' will always be such that the sides of the equator of such dipping-needle will deviate in a direction contrary to the direction in which the edges of the plate move ; that edge , and the plate nearest to either edge of the equator , producing the greatest effect .
" The results of this law , it may be here observed , are in many cases coincident with those of the following .
Conceive the dipping-needle orthographically projected on the plate ; then will the deviation due to rotation of the projected needle take place in a direction opposite to that of the rotation itself .
The author then proceeds to a theoretical investigation of the effect of a plate of soft iron , having within it two poles developed in given positions , and acting ( in addition to the usual magnetic action of soft iron , ) on a needle of infinitely small dimensions in the plane of the plate .
He refers the whole ordinary action of the iron to its centre , and supposes that this is attractive on both poles of the needle ; but the extraordinary action , or that of the newly developed poles , he supposes to reside in them , and to be attractive or repulsive according as they act on the poles of the needle of the same or opposite names with themselves .
On this hypothesis , assuming symbols for the coordinates of the plate 's centre , the distances separating the newly developed poles in the plate , and the angle which the line joining them makes with the direction of the needle , &amp;c. &amp;c. deduce ( from the known laws of magnetism ) formulae expressing the horizontal deviations of the needle : ' 1st , on the supposition of a rotation in one direction ; 2ndly , on that of a rotation in the opposite ; and 3rdly , in that of no rotation at all .
From these , by comparing them with a few of the observations , he deduces numerical values for the constants of the formulae , and then employs them to compute the deviations due to the rotation in all the rest .
He regards the discrepancy between the calculated and observed results as in few cases larger than what he considers may be fairly attributed to error of observation , and that the theory above stated is at the least a general representation of what passes in fact ; admitting , however , that it does not give the exact position of the point where the deviation due to the rotation vanishes , and suggesting partial magnetism in the iron plate used , as one mode of accounting for the difference .
At all events , by an examination of the case on the ordinary supposition of induced magnetism in the iron , he shows that a greater coincidence between theory and fact would not result from that hypothesis than from the one here employed .
He then proceeds to inquire into the degree of permanence of the polarity thus produced in iron by rotation ; from which inquiry it appears that ( at least ' during twelve hours after the plate was brought to rest , ) the influence of a single rotation had scarcely suffered any diminution .
It appears also that the effect is so far from depending on the rapidity of the motion , that the plate can scarcely be made to revolve so slowly that the whole effect shall not be produced .
Lastly , by a slight change in the formulae , the results of computation can be made to agree with observation , to a degree of exactness as near as can be wished .
This change consists in the omission of certain terms introduced by the theory , and the author regards it as very possible so to modify the theory as to get rid of them .
The author closes this communication with an Appendix , comparing the magnetic effects produced by slow and rapid rotation .
The result of the comparison is , that the forces exerted on the needle during rapid rotation , are always in the same direction as those derived from the slowest rotation , and which continue to act after the rotation has ceased , but are greater in intensity ; and that the former effects are such as might have been looked for from a knowledge of the latter .

