~ E July.5 .
EW ~ Jun.13 .
~ Jun.15 .
~~ Jun.18.-19 ~ S ccc Fig. II ~.5 .
W ~ Jun.28 .
Jun.29 .
Jun.30 .
Jul.1 .
Jul.4 .
5 .
6 .
II .
Part of two Letters from Mr Stephen Gray , concerning the Spots of the Sun , observed by him in June last .
SIR , SPots in the Sun being so rarely seen , I presume it may not be unacceptable to you or someoth ers of the Royal Society to hear of one that has been observed by me this present June , tho it have at this time left the Suns visible Disk , yet by the sequel of this account , you will find it may probably return in a few days .
June the 15th , 1703 .
between 4 and 5a Clock in the Afternoon I saw a Spot in the Sun , by placing a white Paper so far behind the Telescope of 6 Foot , as to give the image of the Sun 9 inches diameter ; the Spot was in the lower Right hand Quadrant of the Suns Disk , its form was almost round , inclining to an Ellipsis , it was distant from the limb of the Sun about 6 or 7 minutes , and its diameter I judged to be about 10 or 12 Seconds , a little before the Sun set I saw the Spot with a 16 Foot Telescope , and could perceive that it was environed with a Mistiness ; the 16th I saw the Spot again about 2 in the Afternoon , and found it advanced nearer to the Western limb of the Sun , but the 17th was Cloudy , and so was the Night , which hindered me from observing the Eclipse of the Moon ; the 18th in the Afternoon it cleared up , and a little before 5I saw the Spot with the 16 Foot Glass through thin Clouds , and found it was now very near the limb of the Sun , little more than half a minute , it was much contracted in its breadth , so as to be 4 or 5 times longer than broad , the 19th in the Morning I looked for it again , but could not see it , so I concluded it was then either gone off the Disk of the Sun , or if it adhered to the limb , the great Tremulation of the Atmosphere hindered me from seeing it .
Astronomers have by these Spots found , that the Sun revolves on its Axis , so as that in 27 days the same point in the Suns Disk returns to the same place seen from the Earth , hence its Semirevolution in 13 ~ days , and consequently the Spot going off the Suns Disk , the 19th of June may be expected to return the 2d of July next to the Eastern limb of the Suns visible Hemisphere , if it be not dissolved before that time .
I have in the following Figure endeavoured to express the appearance , but had not the convenience of measuring the angle of the Spots way , with the Vertical , which is only guessed at .
June the 26 , 1703 .
In the Evening I looked to see whether there were generated any new Spots in the Sun , but found none ; but on the 27th about half an hour after 8 in the Morning , by receiving the Suns image on white Paper from the 6 Foot Glass , I saw a Spot near the Vertical of the Sun towards the lower limb , betwixt 9 and 10 I elevated the 16 Foot Tube , the Clouds now being of a convenient thickness to let me see the Sun without prejudice to my Eyes , and found that this Spot was of atriangular form , and that it was accompanied with 2 other lesser ones , as is expressed in Figure the 1st , the sides of the great Spot were curvilinear , this with 2 lesser ones made an Equicrural Triangle at 4 in the Afternoon the Triangular Spot had a small fragment separated from it , and it self was now become Elliptical , the Spot b. d. was much augmented , but the Spot c. diminished , and become longish , as in Figure 2 , at half an hour after 5 the fragment from the great Spot was it self divided into 2 , and the Spot c. was so narrow as scarce to be seen , as at Fig. 3 , at 6a Clock , and 30 minutes there was a small fragment separated from the lower end of the great Spot , as at Figure 4 , at 7a Clock the Spot b was much increased , but c. was vanished ; the observations made this Afternoon with the 16 Foot Glass , were when the Air was clear and so to secure my Eye , the Eye Glass was smoked with a Wax Candle .
The The 28th about 7 in the Morning , I saw that the great Spot was much augmented , but the lesser ones that yesterday attended it , were vanished , and that there were two new ones generated at about 1 1/ 2 minutes distance from the great one below , and towards the left hand of it the great one was a paralellogram , with a very black diagonal crossing it , see Fig. 5 .
at 10 a Clock there was another diagonal crossing the former , and the two lesser Spots which before were longish , had now taken a round form , the Spot c. being much larger than the other at b. I am not yet furnished with proper Instruments to find the position of the Suns Spots , with respect to Longitude and Latitude on the Suns Disk , so I contented my self with observing the position and variation of the Spo s among themselves , which afforded me a most strange and wonderful variety .

