The Bakerian Lecture .
On the Theory of Light and Colours .
By Thomas Young , M.D. F.R.S. Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Read November , 12 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 12 .
] Although the mode , much practised by the ancients , of accounting for a variety of phenomenon by a preconceived hypothesis , be , if not wholly exploded , at least greatly discountenanced by modern philosophers ; yet it must be owned that when a number of facts have been collected and duly ascertained , it cannot but be conducive to the extension of knowledge , to arrange them under certain heads , and , if possible , to ascribe them to some .
general cause ; and that with men who are candid and not over-tenacious , even an error in such a proceeding may often be the means of eliciting some further information , which progressively may tend to the advancement of science .
The immortal Newton has given us a striking example of this in his Theory of Light , which , should the principle he assumed prove ultimately erroneous , his investigation and mode of reasoning will yet remain an everlasting monument of acuteness and ingenuity , which it is likely will ever be found the best source of information to those who shall engage in this delicate branch of natural philosophy .
Under this impression , Dr. Young , having resolved to contemplate the subject of light and heat , in the present Lecture , proposes to take a general survey of what is extant , using the materials which , chiefly through Newton 's means , are now at hand , and at the same time to add some new experiments of material importance in the investigation , in hopes thereby to establish a general principle which may apply to all the pheenomena hitherto discovered .
The Newtonian system of emanation , though illustrated in so masterly a manner by its author , partly on account of the stupendous velocity it implies , has been ever thought liable to difficulties , which could not be satisfactorily obviated .
Accordingly another hypothesis , namely , that of an ethereal fluid , producing its effects either by an undulatory motion or by a continued pressure , had been substituted by some , without however entering in a methodical manner into the abstruse disquisition necessary to establish their theories .
This arduous disquisition our author engages in , in favour of the undulatory system ; and it is no less curious than satisfactory , that , in carefully examining the writings of Newton , there are abundance of passages which prove that he was strongly impressed with ideas which singularly favour this theory .
In the first part of the Lecture , our author enumerates these passages , and adduces them in support of the three following hypotheses .
1 .
That a luminiferous ether , rare and elastic in a high degree , pervades the whole universe .
2 .
That undulations are excited in this ether whenever a body becomes luminous .
And , 3 .
That the sensation of different colours depends on the frequency of vibrations excited by light in the retina .
It is here to be observed that , speaking of the motion of this ether , Newton uses the term vibration instead of undulation , which two words manifestly convey different meanings , the one being the alternate motion of a pendulum , and the other that of waves which protrude each other .
It is likewise obvious , as to the motion of the retina , that it must rather be of the vibratory than of the undulatory nature , the frequency of the vibrations depending on the constitution of the substance limited to the sensation of colours .
These three hypotheses , which may be called essential , are here shown to be literally parts of the more complicated Newtonian system .
But a fourth is now advanced , which appears diametrically opposite to that of Newton , and differs in some measure from any that has been hitherto proposed by other writers , although the author does not consider this difference as affecting in any degree its admissibility .
It assumes that all material bodies haNve an attraction for the ethereal medium , by means of which it is accumulated withini their substance , and for a small distance around them , in a state of greater density , but not of greater elasticity .
The whole theory is now applied to the phoenomena , in Nine Propositions , together with several scholia and corollaries .
As the arguinents on which the doctrine rests cannot be abbreviated without impairing their evidence , we must content ourselves with merely enumerating the heads , adding , however , a few observations which may facilitate the understanding of the main object of the inquiry .
All impulses , says the author in the First Proposition , are propagated in a homogeneous elastic medium , with an equable velocity .
The truth of this theorem has been mathematically demonstrated by various writers , the actual motion being considered as very minute .
Prop. 2 .
An undulation conceived to originate from the vibration of a single particle must expand through a homogeneous medium in a spherical form , but with different quantities of motion in different parts .
Prop. 3 .
A portion of a spherical undulation , admitted through3 an aperture into a quiescent medium , will proceed to be further propagated rectilineally in concentric superficies , terminated laterally by weak and irregular portions of newly-diverging undulations .
The chief purport of this last Proposition is to obviate the objection , that if light were the effect of a widely-expanded fluid put in motion by an impulse , it would , like the waves of water , and air in the instance of sound , spread laterally from the original direction of the motion , and agitate the contiguous quiescent medium ; by which means we ought to see objects as well as we hear sounds , behind an opaque body .
It is here alleged that , according to Newton 's own words , sounds diverge much less than the waves of water , the air being more rare and elastic ; and that in the very rare luminous medium , after its undulations have passed by an opaque substance , they will indeed diverge a little from their first direction , but this in so small a degree as to be almost imperceptible ; whereas the loss of even this small degree of impulse will make the progressive undulatory beam appear somewhat contracted .
It is no small confirmation of the theory , that this effect perfectly agrees with the result of an experimaent mentioned by Sir Isaac Newton ; though , having adopted a different principle , he used it rather as an objection to the undulatory system .
The subject of this Proposition having always been cone sidered as the most difficult part of the last-mentioned system , the author has taken particular pains to clear it as much as possible from all objections .
The mere recital of the enunciations of the four next Propositions will probably enable those at all conversant with the science of optics , to perceive in what manner the author means to explain , according to his theory , the important phenomena of Refraction , Reflection , and Colours .
They are stated in the following manner.-When an undulation arrives at a surface which is the limit of media of different densities , a partial reflection tCakes place , proportionate in force to V ; 65 the difference of the densities .
This , it is thought , may be well illustrated , if not demonstrated , by the analogy of elastic bodies of different sizes .
When an undulation is transmitted through a surface terminating different media , it proceeds in such a direction that the sines of the angles of incidence and refraction are in the constant ratio of the velocity of propagation in the two media .
When an undulation falls on the surface of a rarer medium so obliquely that it cannot be regularly refracted , it is totally reflected at an angle equal to that of its incidence .
And if equidistant undulations be supposed to pass through a medium of which the parts are susceptible of permanent vibrations somewhat slower than the undulations , their velocity will be somewhat lessened by this vibratory tendency ; and the more so in the same medium , the more frequent the undulations .
If we ascribe the sensation of colours to the different velocities of the coloured beams or undulations , this last Proposition will afford a solution to the phenomenon of dispersion according to the new system .
When two undulations from different origins coincide either perfectly or very nearly , in direction , their joint effect is a combination of the motions belonging to each .
This is the Eighth Proposition , which , at first sight , appears so consistent with the most obvious mechanical principles , as scarcely to need any illustration ; yet its extensive utility in explaining the phoenomena of colours renders it perhaps the most important in the lecture .
In a first corollary the author treats of the colours of striated surfaces , where , after showing in what manner these depend on the breadth of the undulations in proportion to the distance and position of minute surfaces , it is shown from original experiments in what manner this circumstance affords a very strong confirmation of the theory .
But a still more interesting coincidence is shown in the second and third corollaries , which treat of the colours of thin plates , and of thick plates .
It is here explained by what means the breadth and duration of the respective undulations may be deduced from Newton 's measures of the , thicknesses reflecting different colours ; and the law of variation of colour , in consequence of the change of obliquity , which is very embarrassing on every other supposition , and had never been reduced to any analogy , is referred to a simple and necessary consequence of the author 's theory .
The whole visible spectrum being estimated to be comprised within the ratio of 3 to 5 , the undulations of red , yellow and blue appear to be related to each other in magnitude as the numbers 8 , 7 , and 6 .
On these data a table is constructed , showing for each primitive colour , and the intermediate ones between each pair of them ; 1 .
The length of an undulation in parts of an inch in air .
2 .
The number of undulations in an inch .
And 3 .
The number of undulations in a second .
All these numbers agreeing accurately with the phaenomnena , will probably be considered as a strong evidence in favour of the theory .
The appearances of colours in inflected light are likewise explained in a subsequent corollary .
The last Proposition may be considered as the general result of the whole investigation ; in consequence of which , .
Dr. Young thinks himself authorized to assert , without hesitation , that radiant light consists in undulations of the luminiferous aether .
The general inferences he draws from his arguments are , that it is clearly granted by Newton that there are undulations , although he denies that they constitute light ; and that it being shown in the three first corollaries of the Eighth Proposition , that all cases of the increase or dimihiution of light are clearly referable to an increase or diminution of such undulations , and that all the affections to which the undulations would be liable are distinctly visible in the phwenomena of light , it may.therefore be very logically inferred that the undulations are light .
Dr. Young proceeds to atte mpt the removal of some apparent difficulties in the system which he has adopted ; and concludes with a summary comparison of light with heat , which he supposes to differ from it only in the magnitude and frequency of its undulations or vibrations .

