Outlines of Experiments and Inquiries respecting Sound and Light .
By Thomas Young , M.D. F.R.S. In a Letter to Edward Whitaker Gray , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read Jan. 16 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 106 .
] We are here presented with a numerous set of experiments and observations , which the author does not deliver as a series calculated to elucidate any particular object , but rather as the results of the first steps of an investigation ; which being of considerable magnitude , and not to be accomplished in a short period of time , are here brought forward in a detached form , in order to preserve them from oblivion , should any unforeseen circumstances prevent his continuing the pursuit .
They are classed under sixteen different heads , of which the following are the titles , and some of the principal inductions .
1 .
Of the Quantity of Air discharged through an Aperture.-This was deduced from the quantity of pressure of water , on a body of air rushing through a small aperture at the end of a tube .
The result was , that the quantity of air discharged by a given aperture is nearly in the subduplicate ratio of the pressure ; and that the ratio of the expenditures by different apertures , with the same pressure , lies between the ratio of their diameters , and that of their areas .
2 .
Of the Direction and Velocity of a Stream of Air.-These were determined by the stream , produced by a known pressure , being made to impinge , in a perpendicular direction , against a white plate , on which a scale of equal parts was delineated , and which was thinly covered with a coloured liquid .
The results were here inferred from the breadth of the surface of the plate laid bare by the stream.-The experiments being repeated at different distances between the orifice and the plate , the longitudinal form of the stream could be hence deduced , their sections being bounded by curves , the nature of which could be determined by their ordinates and abscisswe .
The numerous results obtained in this manner are entered in various tables , and likewise illustrated by figures , in which the longitudinal and not the transverse sections are exhibited to the eye .
3 .
Ocular Evidence of the Nature of Sound.-This is produced by a stream of air driven through a pipe with a lateral aperturej like a French flute , where at the part where the stream issues out of the orifice , vibrations are manifestly perceived , which are rendered still more evident if the current be impregnated with smoke .
4 .
Of the Velocity of Sound.-The velocity of any impression transmitted by the common air , being corrected by the experiments of various observers , is at an average here estimated at 1130 feet in a second of time .
5 .
Of Sonorous Cavities.-What is here said relates chiefly to the reflection of sounds in rooms or galleries .
This we find takes place as often in a second as double the breadth of the room or passage is contained in 1130 feet , that breadth determining the pitch of the musical note thereby produced .
6 Of the Divergence of Sound.-Various are here related which militate against the received opinion that sound diverges equally in all directions , and that there is no substance impervious to sound .
On this head , however , the author admits that a more ample investigation will be required than has hitherto been instituted ; and he intimates that he shall engage in it as soon as his leisure will permit .
7 .
Of theDecay of Sound.-The two hypotheses , 1st , that sound decays nearly in the simple ratio of the distances , and 2nd , that this diminution is in the subduplicate ratio , are here stated , and some fallacies are mentioned , which will likewise render a further inquiry necessary .
8 .
Of the Harmonic Sounds of Pipes.-The object of this section appears from a table exhibiting the results of a set of experiments , made with a view to ascertain the velocity with which organ-pipes of different lengths require to be supplied with air , according to the various appropriate sounds which they produce .
These were made on pipes of the same bore , and of different lengths , both stopped and open .
The general result was , that a similar blast produced as nearly the same sound as the length of the pipe would permit , or at least that the exceptions , though very numerous , lie equally on each side of this conclusion .
9 .
Of the Vibrations of different Elastic Fluids.-The difference of these vibrations has been received as being reciprocally in the subduplicate ratio of the density of the fluid .
Hence in pure hydrogen gas they must be 3'6 times greater than in common air .
And this will explain why an instrument will often appear out of tune , when , in fact , the fault lies in the change of temperature of the atmosphere ; and why the pitch of an organ will be found to differ materially in summer and winter .
10 .
Of the Analogy between Light and Sound.-While the author vindicates the Newtonian theory of light against the criticisms of Euler , he freely admits that it is liable to some objections , among which he chiefly insists upon the uniformity of the motion of light in the same medium , and the partial reflection from every refracting surface .
Having reasoned largely upon this subject , he admits the probability of an analogy between the colours of a thin plate and the sounds of a series of organ-pipes ; and observes that the same colour recurs whenever the thickness of the plate answers to the terms of an arithmetical progression , in the same manner as the same sound is produced by means of an uniform blast from organ-pipes which are different multiples of the same length .
11 .
Of the Coalescence of Musical Sounds .
In this section Dr. Smith 's assertion that the vibrations constituting different sounds are able to cross each other in all directions , without affecting the same individual particles of air by their joint forces , is minutely investigated and controverted .
12 .
Of the Frequency of Vibrations constituting a given Note .
13 .
Of the Vibrations of Chords .
14 .
Of the Vibrations of Rods and Plates .
Of the contents of these three sections no account will be here attempted , as they consist chiefly of .
experiments and demonstrations illustrated by diagrams .
15 .
Of the Human Voice.-A technical description is here given of the formation of sounds by the configuration and inflexions of the different parts of the vocal organ .
And it is intimated that by a close attention to the harmonics entering into the constitution of various sounds , much more may be done in their analysis than could otherwise be expected .
16 .
Of the Temperament of Musical Intervals.-After pointing out some imperfections in most of those who have treated this subject before him , the author suggests his own method of distributing the imperfection of the scale , so as to produce a modulation that shall be found the least defective .
And here he observes , as upon an average of all music ever composed some particular keys occur at least twice as often as others , there seems to be a very strong reason for making the harmony the most perfect in those keys which are the most frequently used ; since the aggregate sum of all the imperfections which occur in playing , must by this means be diminished the most possible , and the diversity of the character at the same time accurately preserved .

