Account of some Experiments on the Descent of the Sap in Trees .
In a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. to the Right lon .
Sir .
Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read April 21 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 277.1 In a former paper Mr. Knight related some experiments on trees , from which he inferred that their sapl , having been absorbed by the bark of the root , is carried up by the alburnum , or white wood of the root , the trunk , and the branches ; that it passes through what he calls the central vessels into the succulent part of the annual shoot , the leaf-stalk , and the leaf ; and that it thence returns to the bark through the returning vessels of the leaf-stalk .
The principal object of the present paper is to point out the causes of the descent of the sap through the bark , and the consequent formation of wood .
The causes to which he ascribes this descent are : 1 .
Gravitation ; 2 .
Motion communicated by winds or other agents ; and 3 .
Capillary attraction , and perhaps some peculiar circumstances in the conformation of the vessels themselves , which renders them better calculated to carry fluids in one direction than in another .
Before he proceeds upon the experiments from which he lias deduced these conclusions , he premises a few observations on the functions of the leaf , from which all the descending fluids in the tree appear to be derived .
He describes an experiment he made on a leaf of a vine , in which its lower surface being placed in contact with a clean piece of plate glass , this glass was soon found to be covered with a strong dew , which had evidently exhaled from the leaf ; and at the end of half an hour so much water was found to have been discharged from the leaf , that it ran from the glass when it was held obliquely .
The position of the leaf being then inverted , and its upper surface being brought in contact with the glass , not the slightest portion of moisture appeared , although the leaf was for some time exposed to the full influence of the meridian sun .
Hence it is inferred , that the vessels intended for perspiration are confined to the under surface of the leaf , and that these , like the cutaneous lymphatics of the animal oeconomy , are also capable of absorbing moisture when the plant is in a state to require it ; whereas the upper surface seems chiefly formed for absorbing light ; and if anything exhale from it , it is probably vital air , or some other permanently elastic fluid .
Reverting now to the principal object of his paper , the author describes an experiment on a shoot of a vine , which he bent downwards nearly in a perpendicular direction .
After it had grown solme time in this position , and acquired a ligneous texture , he stripped the bark from a part of it , and thus cut off all communication through the bark between the shoot and the parent stem .
Former experiments have shown , that had this shoot grown in its erect position , the lip of the bark above the wound would have shown an accumulation of fresh wood and bark ; but in this instance the contrary was found to be the case ; the lip next to the stem , which by its position was now uppermost , gave evident signs of this accumulation .
This is ascribed to the gravitation of the sap , from the curvature of the shoot down to the lip .
The result of this experiment seems to point out one of the causes why perpendicular shoots grow with much greater vigour than those which are inclined or horizontal , they having probably a more perfect and rapid circulation .
The effect of motion on the circulation of the sap was deduced from the following experiment .
Several young standard apple-trees were , by means of stakes and bandages , prevented from yielding to the impulse of the wind up to about the middle of their stems , the upper parts of the stems and the branches being left in their free natural state .
In the course of one summer it was found that much new wood had accumulated in the parts which were kept in motion by the wind ; whereas the lower parts of the stems and roots had increased very little in size .
One of these trees was afterwards confined in such a manner that it could only move in one direction , viz. north and south : thus circumstanced , the diameter of the tree from north to south , in that part of the stem which was most exercised by the wind , exceeded that in the opposite direction , in the following autumn , in the proportion of 13 to 11 .
Several curious inferences may be hence deduced as to the growth of trees in different situations .
In those which are exposed on high grounds , and are kept in almost continual motion , the sap circulates with great rapidity , and will be accumulated chiefly in the roots and lower parts of the trunk ; and hence the diameter of the trunk will diminish rapidly as it recedes from the root : the progress of the ascending sap will of course be impeded , and it will thence cause lateral branches to be produced , the forms of which will be similar to that of the trunk ; and thus the growth of an insulated tree on a mountain will be , as we always find it , low and sturdy , and well calculated to resist the heavy gales to which , from its situation , it is constantly exposed .
Trees , on the other hand , which grow in clumps or sheltered situations , where , for want of motion , the sap is retarded both in its ascent and descent , will acquire a very different habit , and even their wood a different texture , insomuch that a great deal of the timber found in old buildings in and about London , which has always been considered as Spanish chestnut , appear on close examination to be most evidently forest oak .
When a tree is wholly deprived of motion , it often becomes unhealthy , and not unfrequently perishes , apparently owing to the stagnation of the descending sap under the rigid confinement of the lifeless external bark .
Stripping off this bark has been found singularly beneficial towards the increase both of the trunk and branches .
As to the third cause of the descent of sap , viz. the capillary attraction and peculiar conformation of the vessels , though the alburnum , consisting of such capillary tubes and vessels , appears manifestly to expand and contract under the various changes of temperature and moisture in the atmosphere ; and though the motion thus produced must be in some degree communicated to the bark and other contiguous parts , yet combining the results of all his experiments , our author is inclined to consider gravitation as the most extensive and active cause of motion in the descending fluids of trees .
An observation which corroborates his assertion is , that if the sap impelled by causes more powerful than gravitation were to pass and return as freely in the horizontal and pendent as in the perpendicular branches , the growth of each would be equally rapid , or nearly so ; and the horizontEal branches would hence soon extend so far and become so bulky , as to render it impossible for the trunk to support them .
The principal office here ascribed to the horizontal and spreading branches , is to nourish and support the blossoms and fruit , or seed ; little or nothing of the sap being here returned to the parent tree , and hence very feeble powers being wanted in the returning system .
Our author had long entertained an opinion that the ascending fluids in the alburnum and central vessels are everywhere the same , and that the leaf-stalk , the tendril of the vine , the fruit-stalk , and the succulent point of the annual shoot , might in some measure be substituted for each other : experiments have proved his conjecture in many instances to be well founded .
In several of these experiments , leaves continued to perform their office when grafted on the fruit-stalk , the tendril , and the succulent shoot of the vine ; and the leaf-stalk , the tendril , and the fruit-stalk , equally supplied a branch grafted upon them with nourishment .
On examining the manner in which wounds in trees become covered , an additional proof was found , that the medullary processes , namely , the knobs of wood formed at the junction of a grafted bud , with the stock in which it is inserted , are like every other part of the wood generated by the bark .
This is mentioned in contradiction to the opinion still entertained , that the hardest , most durable , and most solid part of the wood , is composed of the soft , cellular , and perishable substance of the medulla .
Lastly , some observations are stated , which seem to imply that the sap in its descent may undergo some modification which fits it more effectually to produce wood .
A few remarks on the formation of buds in tuberous rooted plants beneath the ground , are added by way of appendix .
These , if the above theory be true , must be formed of matter which has descended from the leaves through the bark .
An experiment was made on a potato plant by intersecting its runners which connect the tubers with the parent plant , and immersing their ends in a decoction of logwood .
In about twenty hours it was found that the decoction had indeed passed along the runners in both directions , but that none had entered the vessels of the parent plant .
I'his result was not unexpected to the author , he being well aware that the matter by which the growing tuber is fed must descend from the leaves through the b)ark , and that bark cannot absorb coloured infusions .

