The Bakerian Lecture .
On the Mechanism of the Eye .
By Thomas Young , M.D.F.R.S. ReadNov .
27,1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 23 .
] The copious contents of this lecture relate chiefly to the power possessed by the eye to accommodate itself to the perception of objects at different distances , concerning which a variety of opinions have been entertained .
After some general considerations on the sense of vision , from which it appears that though the extent of the field of perfect vision for each position of the eye be not very great , yet there is reason to believe that its refractive powers are calculated to take in a moderately distinct view of a whole hemisphere ; the author , aware how essential it is in an inquiry of so delicate a nature to proceed upon solid , and as far as possible incontrovertible grounds , delivers a set of dioptrical propositions ( eight in number ) , each accompanied by some scholia and corollaries , from which he means to deduce the principal inferences brought forward in the sequel of the lecture .
The nature of these can only be here intimated by their different enunciations , some of which may appear elementary , yet lead to results of a less obvious nature .
They are as follows ; -1 .
In all refractions the ratio of the sine of the angle of incidence to the sine of the angle of refraction , is constant .
2 .
If between two refracting mediums a third medium , terminated by parallel surfaces , be inter posed , the whole refraction will remain unchanged .
3 .
At the vertex of a given triangle to place a given refracting surface , so that the incident and refracting rays may coincide with the two sides of the triangle joined at the vertex .
4 .
In oblique refractions at spherical surfaces , the line joining the conjugate foci passes through the point where a perpendicular from the centre falls on the line bisecting the chords cut off from the incident and refracted rays .
5 .
To find the place and magnitude of the image of a small object after refraction at any number of spherical surfaces .
6 .
To determine the law by which the refraction of a spherical surface must vary , so as to collect parallel rays to a perfect focus .
7 .
To find the principal focus of a sphere or lens , of which the internal parts are more dense than the external .
And lastly , to find the nearer focus of parallel rays falling -obliquely on a sphere of variable density .
How these various propositions , both problems and theorems , apply to the structure and functions of the eye , will be manifest to those anyways acquainted with investigations of this nature .
As the focal distances of the eye , whether permanent or variable , must be one of the principal data upon which this inquiry is to proceed , an instrument for readily determining these distances could not but be a very essential desideratum .
Although due praise be here given to Dr. Portenfield 's optometer , invented for that purpose , Dr. Young , thinking it capable of considerable improvements , describes another apparatus of a more simple construction , and much more convenient and accurate in its application .
Its principle depends on the circumstance , that when we look at any object through two small holes within the limits of the pupil , if the object be at the point of perfect vision , the image on the retina will be single ; but in every other case the image , for reasons previously stated , will become double , and will appear as two lines crossing each other in the point of perfect vision .
Thus we see that this point of intersection coincides with that of perfect vision , and by the help of a lens , and of a scale deduced from one of the corollaries of the fourth proposition , we are enabled to determine the focal distance of every eye .
The mechanical part of this apparatus must be learnt from the figures which accompany the lecture .
On these principles , and with this instrument , the author proceeds next to investigate the dimensions and refractive powers of the human eye in its quiescent state , and the form and magnitude of the picture which is delineated on the retina .
This he has performed chiefly on his own eye ; and he has in general grounded his calculations on the supposition of an eye nearly similar to his own .
The various expedients he has used for obtaining accurate measurements , is perhaps not the least interesting part of the lecture .
Nor will the series of general observations on the structure and functions of the eye , into which the author enters circumstantially , be found of less moment and curiosity .
Among these may be noticed the obliquity of the uvea , and of the crystalline lens nearly parallel to the uvea , with respect to the visual ray , whereby a distortion of the focal point is produced in some eyes , and certain instances of oblique vision may be duly accounted for ; also the different refractive powers of the crystalline lens at the centre and near its surface , the former after death being to that of water in the proportion of 21 to 20 , and gradually decreasing till at the surface it becomes equal to that of the surrounding medium , thus producing a mean refraction for the whole lens , considered as a body of equal density , in the proportion of 14 to 13 when compared with that of water .
We also find here that the whole extent of perfect vision is little more than 100 , or more strictly speaking , that the imperfection begins within a degree or two of the visual axis , and that at the distance of 100 or 150 it becomes nearly stationary , until at a still greater distance vision is wholly extinguished ; but that the motion of the eye , at the same time , has a range of about 550 in every direction , so that the field of perfect vision , in succession , is by this motion extended to a circle of 1100 diameter .
The advantage also of the spherical form of the eye , not only for motion but also for vision , is illustrated by diagrams .
These few observations are here inserted not as a just delineation of this important part of the lecture , which cannot be condensed within our limits , but as a few examples of the sort of information the reader may expect to derive from it .
In a following section the author proceeds to inquire how great are the changes which the eye admits , and what degree of alteration in its proportions will be necessary for these changes , on various suppositions ; - .
A change in the radius of the cornea .
2 .
A change in the distance of the crystalline lens from the retina .
3 .
These two causes acting conjointly ; and 4 .
Some alteration in the figure of the lens itself .
A minute inquiry follows next , which of these changes actually takes place in nature : and here a variety of experiments are mentioned , contrived for the purpose of deciding on the truth of each of these suppositions .
The object of the first series of these experiments , the results of which were directly inferred from the effects of immerging the eye in water , is to ascertain the curvature of the cornea in all circumstances ; and from these results it appears that the cornea is not concerned in the accommodation of the eye .
A similar investigation is instituted to inquire whether any alteration in the length of the axis of the eye , which would affect the distance of the lens from the retina , actually takes place in nature .
And here , too , the results are , that it is highly improbable that any material change in the length of this axis is ever produced , and that it is almost impossible to conceive by what power such a change could be effected .
The opinion of the joint operation of these two causes , which had derived great respectability from the ingenious and elegant manner in which it had been treated by Dr. Olbers of Bremen , and from being the result of the investigation of Mr. Home and the late Mr. Ramsden , is , lastly , shown to be inconsistent with the experiments related in this paper .
We now come to the important section , in which the author inquires into the pretensions of the crystalline lens to the power of altering the focal length of the eye .
The grand objection to the efficacy of a change of figure in the lens , was derived from various instances of persons , who , after they were deprived of that part of the organ , still retained the faculty of accommodation .
The result of this inquiry was , contrary to expectation , that in an eye deprived of the crystalline lens , the actual focal distance , as ascertained by the optometer , is totally unchangeable : for the proofs deduced in favour of this assertion , the author acknowledges himself indebted to Mr. Ware , who obligingly introduced him to several of his patients on whom the operation had been performed .
Having thus , then , pointed out the inconveniences attending all the other hypotheses , and some imperfections in the experiments adduced in their favour , and having removed the principal objections to the opinion of an internal change of the figure of the lens , the Doctor proceeds to describe some experiments which he conceives come very near to a mathematical demonstration of the existence of such a change , and likewise in a great measure explain its origin and the manner in which it is effected .
T'he results of these experiments are deduced from the different distribution of light in the image of a lucid point on the retina , according to the different states of the eye ; and inferring thence , on the mathematical principles above laid down , what form of the lens will account for those different impressions .
It is here acknowledged that the mere action of the external coats of the lens , does not , as was stated by the author eight years ago , afford a satisfactory explanation of the phoenomenon .
It seems , however , manifest , that changes of figure take place in the lens , which can be produced by no external cause ; and this seems to establish the muscularity of the lens , long since suggested by Dr. Pemberton , Albinus , and others .
The words of the author on this subject are , " If we compare the central parts of each surface of the lens to the belly of a muscle , there is no difficulty in conceiving their thickness to be immediately " ( or spontaneously ) " increased , and to produce an immediate elongation of the axis , and an increase of the central curvature ; while the lateral parts cooperate according to their distances from the centre , and in different individuals in somewhat different proportions .
" And an intimation is here added , that it would be worthy of inquiry , whether the state of contraction may not also immediately add to the refractive powers of the lens .
In the last section we find some anatomical illustrations of the construction and capacity of the organs of various classes of animals for the functions attributed to them .
The human lens is not only ascertained to be of a radiated structure , but , on close inspection , the number of radiations is found to be ten on each side .
The greatest pains were taken to trace nerves into the lens , but as yet without success .
The author , however , declares his conviction of their existence , and of the precipitancy of those who have absolutely denied them ; and adduces some observations in favour of this assertion .
lie next describes a zone , or gland , surrounding the margin of the crystalline , which he has observed in many animals , and which , from some phonomlena of vikion , he also infers in the human eye .
Some observations are lastly added concerning the nature and situation of the ciliary processes in various animals ; also on the nature of the marsupium nigrum of birds , and the horseshoe-like appearance in the choroid of fishes ; both which have improperly been termed muscular , the former being a mere duplicature of a membrane which may be unfolded ; and in the latter the whole mass being evidently of an uniform texture , the fibrous appearance which has misled some former observers being the effect of transverse fissures , or cracks , which may easily be mistaken for filaments .
The lecture concludes with a few observations on the bony scales of the eyes of birds , to which the author denies any concern in changing the focus of the eye ; and on a cavity observable in the eyes of some insects which has been supposed to be in some measure subservient to this purpose .

