On the inverted Action of the alburnous Vessels of Trees .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter to thce Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read May 15 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 293 .
] Mr. Knight , in the papers formerly communicated by him to the Royal Society , endeavoured to prove that the fluid by which the various parts added to trees , &amp;c. are generated , has previously circulated through their leaves , either in the same or in the preceding season , and has subsequently descended through their barks .
'There is , however , a circumstance stated by Hales and by Du Hamel , which 236 appears to minlitate against the above hypothesis , namely , that when two circular incisions are made , at a small distance from each other , through the bark , round the stem of a tree , and the bark between these incisions is wholly taken away ; that portion of the stem which is below the incisions continues to live , and to increase in size , though much more slowly than the parts above the incisions .
The abovementioned naturalists have also observed , that a small elevated ridge is formed round the lower lip of the wound , which makes some slight advances to meet the bark and wood , projected in larger quantities from the upper lip of the wound .
Our author , in a former paper , attempted to explain the above circumstance , by supposing that a small part of the true sap , descending from the leaves , escapes downwards , through the porous substance of the alburnum : in another paper he has shown , from the growth of inverted cuttings , the existence of a power in the alburnum to carry the sap in different directions ; and he now describes some experiments made in order to show that the conclusions drawn by him are not inconsistent with the facts stated by Hales and Du Hamel ; and that although the ascending sap usually rises through the alburnum and cenxtral vessels , yet the alburnous vessels appear to be also capable of an inverted action , when such action becomes necessary to preserve the existence of the plant .
The first experiment described in the present paper , consisted in removing the bark by means of circular incisions at the distance of three inches from each other from the stems of several young oaks , as soon as the leaves were nearly full grown , and examining , in the succeeding winter , the state of the parts .
In almost every instance the alburnum was found to be lifeless , and almost dry ; in one instance , however , it was perfectly alive ; and in this the specific gravity of the wood , above the decorticated space , was 1114 , and below it 1111 , whereas the specific gravity of an unmutilated stem , from the same roots , and at the same distance from the ground , was 1112 .
Now if the whole of the descending , or true sap , had in the above instance stagnated above the decorticated part , the specific gravity of the wood there ought to have been much greater than it was found to be .
Mr. Knight , conceiving that he should obtain more satisfactory and decisive results from tuberous-rooted plants , now proceeded to make some experiments on the potato .
The early varieties of this plant , as is well known , afford neither blossoms nor seeds .
This circumstance he attributed to the privation of nutriment , from the preternaturally early formation of the tubers ; he therefore planted , in the last spring , some cuttings of a very early variety of the potato in garden-pots ; and when the plants had grown a few inches high , they were secured to sticks , fixed erect in the pots .
The mould was then washed away from the base of the stems , so that the plants were suspended in the air , and had no communication with the remaining soil , except by their fibrous roots .
Efforts were soon made , by every plant , to produce runners and tuberous roots , but these were destroyed as soon as they became perceptible .
An increased luxuriance of growth now took place in all the plants ; numerous blossoms were emitted , and every blossom afforded fruit .
In another experiment Mr. Knight , taking great care to prevent the formation of tubers on any other part of the plant , permitted them to form on the extremities of the lateral branches ; these being the points most distant from the earth , in which the tubers are naturally deposited .
Many of the joints of the plants became enlarged ; and our author thinks , that if the formation of tubers had been totally prevented , these joints would have acquired an organization capable of affording plants in the succeeding spring .
In another variety of the potato , which was very luxuriant in lateral branches , Mr. Knight detached many of those branches from the principal stem , letting them , however , remain suspended by such a portion of alburnous and cortical fibres and vessels as was sufficient to preserve life .
The result was , that the true sap , instead of returning down the principal stem into the ground , remained , and formed small tubers at the base of the leaves of the depending branches .
To ascertain whether the tubers would be fed when the passage of the true sap down the cortical vessels was interrupted , a portion of the bark , five lines in width , was removed from the stems of several potato plants , close to the surface of the ground , soon after the tubers had begun to be formed .
The tubers continued to grow , but did not attain their natural size ; partly , our author supposes , from the declining health of the plant , and partly from the stagnation of a portion of the true sap above the decorticated part .
The preceding experiments , Mr. Knight admits , do not prove that the fluid contained in the leaf passes downward through the decorticated space to be subsequently discharged into the bark below it ; but he has , he says , found that if the amputated branches of different trees have their leaves immersed in water , a portion of that fluid will be absorbed , and will be carried downwards , by the alburnum , into the bark below a decorticated space ; so that the insulated bark will be preserved alive and moist during several days .
If the moisture absorbed by a leaf can be thus transferred , it appears very probable that the true sap will pass through the same channel .
A considerable portion of that sap certainly stagnates above the wound , and a great part of that which escapes into the bark below the wound , is probably carried into the root .
But some of that fluid will be carried upwards , by capillary attraction , and will stagnate on the lower lip of the wound , where , in Mr. Knight 's opinion , it generates the small portion of wood and bark described by Hales and Du Hamel .
Our author concludes his paper by stating , that he has in his possession a piece of a fir-tree , from which a portion of bark , extending round its whole stem , had been taken off several years before the tree was felled .
And he has ascertained that the specific gravity of the wood above the decorticated space is 0590 , that below it only 0491 ; and having steeped pieces of each part , weighing 100 grains , in water during twelve hours , he found that the latter had absorbed 69 grains , the former only 51 .
Hence he thinks considerable advantage may be expected from stripping off a portion of the bark from resinous trees , all round their trunks , close to the surface of the ground , in the beginning of the summer preceding the autumn in which they are to be felled .
He even thinks it probable , that the timber would be improved by letting them stand a second year ; although he admits that some loss would be sustained by the slow growth of the trees in the second summer .
It may , Mr. Knight says , be suspected , that the increased solidity of the fir-wood above described was confined to the part contiguous to the decorticated space ; but it is well known that taking off a portion of bark round the branch of a fruit-tree , occasions in the succeeding season an increased quantity of blossoms on every partof that branch .
This increase probably owes its existence to a stagnation of the true sap , extending to the extremities of the branch ; and it may therefore be expected that the alburnous matter of the trunk and branches of a resinous tree will be rendered more solid by a similar operation .

