On the Causes which influence the Direction of the Growth of Roots .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 7 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 209 .
] In a former paper Mr. Knight showed the influence of gravitation on the plumule and radicle of germinating seeds ; in the present he considers the fibrous roots , which , with little comparative regard to gravity , extend themselves in whatever direction the greatest nutriment or moisture is to be found , with an appearance of predilection , which some naturalists have been disposed to compare to animal instinct .
Mr. Knight examines whether this comparison has any foundation .
He remarks , that when trees which require moisture are near to water , by far the greatest part of their roots extend themselves in that direction ; but when those to which a dry soil is more congenial are placed in the same situation , their roots take an opposite course .
When a tree is placed upon a wall , at a distance from the ground , its powers appear directed exclusively to one object ; its roots are extended with well-directed efforts to reach the soil beneath , while its branches are in the mean time stinted in their growth ; but as soon as the roots have entered the soil , the branches then grow with vigour and rapidity .
Mr. Knight sowed some seeds of the common carrot and parsnip in light poor loam , under which , at the depth of eighteen inches , he had placed a stratum of very rich mould , incorporated with fresh vegetable matter .
The plants grew feebly till the end of summer , but then assumed a very luxuriant growth ; and when the roots were examined , they were found nearly cylindrical , with very few fibres emitted into the superficial poor soil , whilst the rich mould beneath was filled with fibres .
When the strata of soil were reversed , the roots were found to have formed accordingly , ramifying , in an unusual manner , into the superficial rich soil , but emitting few of their fibres into the subjacent stratum .
When mould contained in an inverted garden-pot was so supported by frame-work that its under surface was exposed to the air , the radicles of garden-beans in contact with this surface extended horizontally along it , and in a few days emitted many fibrous roots upwards into the mould ; but they appear to the author to be guided by laws far more simple than animal instinct .
For the explanation of these laws he refers to the known powers of the alburnum of the stem and branches , by which the sap is propelled , without assistance from the roots , in such proportion as each has power to employ ; that which is exposed to the light attracting to itself a larger portion of the ascending sap , for the formation of leaves and of vigorous annual shoots , while those that are shaded are comparatively languid and unhealthy .
In the same manner , the author is of opinion , that the stimulus of proper food and moisture in the soil upon the bark of the root may give ability to that organ to attract and employ a larger portion of the descending current of sap .
Those roots of a tree upon a wall , that are the worst supplied with moisture , will be first affected with drought , and their points will become rigid and cease to elongate , and the current of descending sap will be employed in the elongation of those more favourably circumstanced , and the tree will appear to have adopted as wise a plan as it could have done if it had possessed the feeling and instinctive powers of animal life .
The cylindrical roots of the carrots and parsnips , in the first experimeent , as well as the branched and taper roots of those sown in a soil superficially rich , admit of a similar explanation .
So also when the seeds of the bean were placed to vegetate beneath the mould of an inverted pot , the lower surface of the radicles , being exposed to dry air , were rendered rigid and incapable of emitting fibrous roots ; while their upper surface in contact with the mould , being preserved in a due state of moisture , emitted fibres in that direction alone in which proper food was to be procured .
In confirmation of this explanation , the author made a corresponding experiment , in which water was so constantly and abundantly supplied , that every part of the radicles was kept equally wet , and then they emitted fibres perfectly obedient to gravitation , without being influenced by the soil above them .
The strength of roots , by which they appear to be wisely adapted to their situations of exposure to the violence of winds , is traced by the author to the operation of another cause , noticed in a former memoir ; for the immediate consequence of motion upon the roots , as well as upon the branches , is a deposition of alburnous matter upon the part moved ; and hence those roots which immediately join the trunk of an insulated tree become strong and rigid , but diminish rapidly in bulk as they recede from the stem and descend into the ground .
But in a sheltered valley , on the contrary , where a tree is protected by its neighbours , and little agitated by winds , the roots grow long , and continue slender like the stem and branches , , and hence comparatively much less of alburnous matter is expended beneath the ground .
In the whole of this arrangement the author sees much reason to admire the simplicity of the means employed by the wisdom of nature , but is unable to trace the existence of anything like sensation or intellect in the plants themselves .

