On the Parts of Trees primarily impaired by Age .
In a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 22 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 178 .
] In the first communication which Mr. Knight made to the Society in the year 1795 , he showed that the period to which the existence of any one variety of fruit could be prolonged by grafting , was limited ; and that any portion detached from an old tree , and transplanted upon a young stock , was not thereby restored to what can , with propriety , be called a young tree .
Mr. Knight 's endeavours have , since that time , been directed toward ascertaining which of the several organs it is that first fails in the performance of its proper office in consequence of age , and the result of his experiments forms the subject of the present letter .
In the prosecution of these inquiries Mr. Knight bears constantly in mind the analogy that subsists , in many respects , between the organs of animals and those of vegetables ; for though it may not be in his power to avail himself of any assistance to be derived from such considerations , it is not improbable that , on the contrary , some new light may be thrown upon the functions of the animal economy by investigations respecting those of vegetables , where the necessary experiments may be repeated any number of times , and where the influence of efficient or defective organs may be observed with the most deliberate attention .
The parts separately noticed on the present occasion , are the roots , the stem , and the leaves .
The roots and leaves have been compared by all naturalists , both ancient and modern , to the intestines and lungs of animals .
The analogy also , between the sap of vegetables and the blood of animals , is very obvious ; and the circulation of sap in the former , as far as is necessary to , or consistent with , their state of existence , is very satisfactorily established by the experiments formerly communicated to us by Mr. Knight , in addition to those made by other naturalists .
With respect to the roots , no experiments appeared wanting to determine that no defect in the action of this organ occurs from age , and consequently that the debility and diseases of old varieties of fruit were not derived from this source .
The duration of roots , in old coppices , that are felled at stated periods , appeared to the author sufficient to establish that the quantity of produce is not diminished by age of the roots .
The inability also , of a seedling stock to give the character of youth to an inserted bud or graft , seemed to prow how little is effected by undoubted youth of the root .
Mr. Knight ascertained , however , by an experiment of an opposite nature , that the stock may be affected by the graft .
By planting cuttings of some very old varieties of apple , he obtained stocks which would soon have manifested the usual appearances of age .
At the end of two years these were grafted , at about two inches from the ground , with new and luxuriant varieties ; and at the end of five years the roots were examined , and were found to contain ten times as much alburnum as they would probably have contained if they had not been grafted ; and they were also wholly free from disease .
Another kind of experiment was next made upon the effect of grafting young wood upon old , the old having first been grafted upon a young stock , in a situation where it would not have survived the second or third year .
But when a portion of an old golden pippin was thus included between two portions of a crab , the wood was found to grow just as well , and to be just as healthy as the stock and branches .
In other experiments the author tried the effect of placing young grafts upon old ones , that had long since become cankered .
The old ones being cut off at the distance of a foot from their original junction , he regrafted them with new and healthy varieties , and he found that they became , in consequence , perfectly freed from every appearance of canker .
The author having thus ascertained that the debilities of old varieties of fruit-trees did not originate in any defective action of the bark or alburnum of either the stem or the root , he proceeded to investigate the states of the leaf , and of the succulent annual shoot .
With this view various grafts of the golden pippin , which were known to be liable to decay , were inoculated with buds of new varieties ; and in the ensuing winter their own natural buds were removed , and those that had been inserted were alone allowed to remain .
As soon as the leaves of these began to appear , every symptom of disease was removed ; and each part of the branch of the golden pippin thus regenerated , appeared to perform its office as well as the wood and bark of the seedling stock could have done without this intermediate graft of old materials .
Since the vigour of youth , or debility and diseases of old age , appeared thus to depend on the quality of the leaf through which the sap of plants circulates , in the same manner as the blood of animals does through their lungs , Mr. Knight considers the consequence of defective leaves , according to his former views of the functions they perform , of preparing and assimilating the sap transmitted through them ; and he observes , that the deficiency of power in the leaves is ( as might be expected ) most apparent where the redundancy of sap is the greatest ; for he finds that the grafts of old varieties are most diseased in rich soils , or when they are applied to vigorous stocks ; and the defects appear to arise from an accumulation of fluid in the extreme branches and annual shoots , beyond what can circulate with effect through the imperfect leaves that are produced by extremities debilitated by age .
In support of this opinion , of an essential difference between the leaves of young and of old varieties , Mr. Knight observes , that there is an evident alteration in the character of leaves visible in the same variety , between those of two years and those of twenty years old ; and that it is consequently highly probable that still further changes have occurred in the course of two centuries .
From these results respecting the importance of the leaves to the well-being of vegetables , the author ventures to suggest the probability , that the debilities of old age in animals may arise from a similar source , and may be traced to injury primarily sustained by the lungs .
It is not merely upon general analogy that such an opinion may be supported , but in particular instances of long life in men and in domesticated animals , it is observed that those individuals longest retain their health , and are most able to bear excessive labour without injury to their constitution , in whom the chest is manifestly most capacious .

