Account of some Experiments on the Ascent of the Sap in Trees .
In a Letterfrom Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read May 14 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 333 .
] The author prefaces his paper by declaring that the cause of the ascent of the sap in trees appearing to him not to have been as yet satisfactorily accounted for , he resolved to enter on an experimental inquiry on the subject ; and that having met with some facts of which he had found no mention in any author , he flattered himself an account of them might not be unacceptable to the Society .
The first experiments were made with a view to determine whether the sap does actually , as has been thought by some , ascend along 1 the bark .
For this purpose , circular incisions were made round a number of young healthy trees , and the bark removed for the space of about half an inch , or more , of the whole circumference .
This , it was found , by no means impeded the growth of the upper part of the tree ; but , on the other hand , the part of the stem below the incision scarcely grew at all , and in time even seemed to wither .
From the whole of this investigation it seems probable , that the current of sap which adds the annual layers of wood to the stem , so far from ascending , actually descends from the young branches and leaves through the bark .
The branches and leaves which supply this fluid became hence the next objects of the inquiry .
The conjecture just now mentioned was here confirmed by the circumstance , that when a branch or leaf was left between two circular incisions , it continued to receive its nourishment as usual ; and the bark under it gave evident marks of increasing vegetation , while that above was not only stationary , but seemed'even to decay .
It became now necessary to investigate by what channels leaves receive their nourishment .
Some annual shoots were cut from trees , and placed in a coloured infusion .
Although this fluid , it was observed , certainly rose into the leaves , yet neither the bark nor the medulla was sensibly tinged by it ; but in the centre of the stalks of the leaves were found several bundles of tubes which had been manifestly coloured , and must hence have been the channels of communication .
These tubes were surrounded by others , which , being traced downwards , were found to enter the inner bark , and by no means to communicate with the tubes of the wood : these being colourless , it may reasonably be concluded that they convey a different fluid from that which ascends into the leaf .
To the former , or internal tubes , which had not yet been distinguished by any name , the author thinks fit to assign the appellation of Central Vessels .
He then mentions certain spiral tubes which are everywhere appendent to these vessels , and seem to proceed from the sides of the medulla to the leaf-stalk .
Particular attention is then paid to the action of the medulla .
By extracting parts of it out of the stems of trees , so as completely to interrupt its continuity , it was proved beyond a doubt that it is nowise necessary for the progression of the sap , the tree growing equally , whether this marrow be or be not continued .
The next set of experiments relates to the fructification : and here central tubes were likewise found in the fruit-stalks , which , there is reason to think , are the nourishing ducts of those productions .
Many curious circumstances are here mentioned concerning the internal organization and mode of nutrition of certain fruits , such as apples and pears , for which , as well as for several observations on the error of those who have ascribed the ascent of the sap to capillary tubes , or to the sole agency of heat , we must refer to the paper , in order to hasten to the part in which the author points out an agent to which he thinks the mechanical propelling force required may be reasonably ascribed .
In all kinds of wood , he says , there are two sorts of grain , the false or bastard , and the true or silver grain .
The former consists of the concentric circles which mark the annual increase of the tree ; and the latter is composed of thin lamina , diverging in every direction from the medulla to the bark , with different degrees of adhesion to each other at different seasons , and lying between and pressing on the sap-vessels of the alburnum .
If these laminae are expansible under various changes of temperature , or from any other cause arising from the powers of vegetable life , our author conceives that they are as well placed as is possible to propel the sap to the extremities of the branches .
That they are affected by the changes of temperature in the air is proved by the effects of these changes on them even after the tree is dead , as in the instance of boards , which warp more or less , according to the direction of this grain : and other instances are given of the effects of solar heat on different parts of plants , which materially favour this assertion .
The general conclusions derived from these experiments are , That the tubes of the alburnum , acted upon by the agency of the silver grain , are in fact the channels which , extending from the extremities of the roots to the points of the annual shoots , convey the nutricious juices to the base of the buds , and in the soft and succulent part of the annual shoot , where the alburnum with the silver grain ceases to act , and where commences the action of the central vessels , with their appendages the spiral tubes ; -that having through these reached the end of the leaves , the sap undergoes a change , perhaps from the action of the atmosphere , and is then brought back again through the external vessels of the leaf-stalks to the bark , which conveys it to every part of the tree , and ultimately contributes to its growth .
In speaking of the use of the medulla , the author assigns his reasons for considering it as a reservoir of moisture , which it occasionally imparts to the leaves and fruit through the central vessels , and which these organs must often stand in need of , as they cannot , like animals , resort to the brook or shade .
The heart or coloured wood of the trees he considers as the bones in the animal oeconomy , being intended to support them against the effects of winds and other destructive agents ; and , accordingly , it is not found in roots or tender shoots , but is only formed when the vegetable has acquired a bulk which renders such a structure necessary .

