On the Direction of the Radicle and Germen during the VegetationZ of Seeds .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Elsq .
F.R.S. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read January 9 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 99 .
] It is , Mr. Knight observes , very well knor-wn , that in -rwhatever position a seed is placed to germinate , its radicle always makes an effort to descend towards the centre of the earth , whilst the elongated germen takes a precisely opposite direction : and it has been proved by Du Hamel , that if a seed , during its germination , be frequently inverted , the points , both of the radicle and germen , will return to their first direction .
These opposite effects have , by some naturalists , been attributed to gravitation ; and Mr. Knight conceived , that if they really proceeded from that cause , those effects would take place only whilst the seed remained at rest , in the same position with respect to the attraction of the earth , and that the operation of gravitation would be suspended by a constant and rapid change of position in the germinating seed , and might be counteracted by the agency of centrifugal force .
In order to determine how far the above opinion was well founded , he made the following experiments : Having a strong rill of water passing through his garden , he contrived , by its means , to give motion , vertically , to a wheel of eleven inches diameter .
Round the circumference of this wheel , several seeds of the garden-bean , which had been previously soalied in water , were bound in such a manner that their radicles were made to point in every direction .
The wheel made rather more than 150 revolutions in a minute .
In a few days the seeds began to germinate , and Mr. Knight had the pleasure to see that the radicles , in whatever direction they were protruded , turned their points outwards from the circumference of the wheel , and in their subsequent growth receded still further from it .
The germens , on the contrary , took the opposite direction ; and in a few days their points met at the centre of the wheel .
Three of these plants were suffered to remain on the wheel ; their stems soon extended beyond its centre , but their points returned , and met again at the centre .
As Mr. Knight conceived that some slight objections might be urged against the conclusions he was inclined to draw from the above experiment , he repeated it in a different manner , by adding to his former apparatus another wheel , also of eleven inches diameter , which moved horizontally , and to which he could give different degrees of velocity .
Round the circumference of this horizontal wheel , seeds of the garden-bean were bound , as in the former experiment , and the wheel was made to perform 250 revolutions in a minute .
The effect produced by this motion soon became obvious ; for the radicles now pointed downwards about ten degrees below the horizontal line of the wheel 's motion , whilst the germens pointed the same number of degrees above it : but when the motion of the wheel was diminished to 80 revolutions in a minute , the radicles pointed about 45 degrees below the horizontal line , and the germen as much above it ; the one always receding from the axis of the wheel , the other approaching to it .
The foregoing experiments , the author thinks , prove that the radicles of the germinating seeds are made to descend , and the germens to ascend , by some external cause , and not by any power inherent in vegetable life ; and he sees little reason to doubt that gravitation is the principal if not the only agent employed in this case by nature .
The radicle , he says , is increased in length only by parts successively added to its point ; whereas the germen , on the contrary , is elongated by a general extension of its parts previously organized ; and its vessels and fibres appear to extend themselves in proportion to the quantity of nutriment they receive .
When the germen deviates from a perpendicular direction , the sap accumulates on its under side ; and consequently , as the vessels and fibres on that side elongate more rapidly than those of the upper side , the point of the germen must always turn upwards .
This increased elongation of the vessels and fibres of the under side produces also the most extensive effects in the subsequent growth of the trunks and branches of trees .
The immediate effect of gravitation , Mr. Knight says , is to occasion the depression of the branches ; but , by the above-mentioned increased longitudinal extension of the under side , their depression is prevented , and they are even enabled to raise themselves above their natural level .
It has , however , been objected by Du Hamel , that gravitation can have little influence on the germen when it points perpendicularly downwards .
To obviate this objection , Mr. Knight made many experiments on the seeds of the horse-chestnut and of the bean .
The result was , that the radicle of the bean , when made to point perpendicularly upwards , formed a considerable curvature in the course of a few hours .
The germen was more sluggish ; but , in spite of any efforts made by the author to prevent it , constantly changed its direction in less than twenty-four hours .
It may also , Mr. Knight says , be objected , that few of the branches of trees rise perpendicularly upwards , and that their roots always spread horizontally .
Respecting the first of these objections , he observes , that luxuriant shoots , which abound in sap , constantly turn upwards , and endeavour to acquire a perpendicular direction ; but that the feeble and more slender shoots grow in almost every direction , probably from their fibres being more dry , and their vessels less amply supplied with sap , so that they are less affected by gravitation .
To the second objection , Mr. Knight answers , that the compression of the radicle , as it penetrates the soil , obstructs the motion of the sap , and occasions the generation of numerous lateral roots ; and as their substance is less succulent than that of the radicle first emitted , they are less obedient to gravitation , and consequently extend horizontally in every direction .
Respecting the tap-root of the oak , the author says he has examined at least 20,000 trees of that species , and never found one tree that possessed a tap-root ; he therefore thinks he may be allowed to doubt the existence of such a root .

