X. On the Economy of Bees .
In a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F. R. S. to the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read May 14 , 1807 .
MY DEAR SIR , IN the prosecution of those experiments on trees , accounts of whichyou have so often done me the honour to present to the Royal Society , my residence has necessarily been almost wholly confined to the same spot ; and I have thence been induced to pay considerable attention to the economy of bees , amongst other objects ; and as some interesting circumstances in the habit of these singular insects appear to have come under my observation , and to have escaped the notice of former writers , I take the liberty to communicate my observations to you .
It is , I believe , generally supposed that each hive , or swarm , of these insects remains at all times wholly unconnected with other colonies in the vicinity ; and that the bee never distinguishes a stranger from an enemy .
The circumstances which I shall proceed to state will , however , tend to prove that these opinions are not well founded , and that a friendly intercourse not unfrequently takes place between different colonies , and is productive of very important consequences in their political economy .
Passing through one of my orchards rather late in the evening in the month of August , in the year , 180o , I observed that several bees passed me in a direct line from the hives in my own garden to those in the garden of a cottager , which was about a hundred yards distant from it .
As it was considerably later in the evening than the time when bees usually cease to labour , I concluded that something more than-ordinary was going forward .
Going first to myown garden , and then to that of the cottager , I found a very considerable degree of bustle and agitation to prevail in one hive in each : every bee , as it arrived , seemed to be stopped and questioned , at the mouth of each hive ; but I could not discover any thing like actual resistance , or hostility , to take place ; though I was much inclined to believe the intercourse between the hives to be hostile and predatory .
, The same kind of intercourse continued , in a greater or less degree , during eight succeeding days , and though I watched them very closely , nothing occurred to induce me to suppose that their intercourse was not of an amicable kind .
On the tenth morning , however , their friendship ended , as sudden and violent friendships often do , in a quarrel ; and they fought most furiously ; and after this there was no more visiting .
Two years subsequentto this period I observed the same kind of intercourse to take place between two hives of my own bees , which were situated about two hundred yards distant from each other : they passed from each hive to the other just as they did in the preceding instance , and a similar degree of agitation was observable .
In this instance , however , their friendship appeared to be of much shorter duration , for they fought most desperately on the fifth day ; and then , as in the last mentioned case , allfurther:visiting:ceased .
I have some reason to believe that the kind of intercourse I have described , which I have often seen , :and which is by no means:uncomnmon , notunfrequently ends in a junction of the two swarms ; for one instance came under my observation , many years rago , in : which the labouring bees , under circumtances-perfetly similar to those I have described , wholly disappeared , leaving the drones in peaceable possession of thehive , butwithout any thing to live upon .
aIhave also reasonsfor belieying , that whenever a junction of two swarms , with their property , is agreed upon , that:which proposes to remove , immediately , or soon afterwards , unites with the other swarm , and returns to the : deserted hive during the day only to carry off the honey : for having examined at night a hive from which I suspected the bees to be migrating , -I found it without aa single inhabitant .
I was led to make theoexamination by information I had received from a very accurate observer , that all the bees would'then be absent .
A very considerable quantity of honey was in this instance left in the hive without iny guards to defend it ; but I conclude that the bees would have returned for it , had it remained till the next day .
Whenever the bees quit , their habitation , in this way , I have always observed some fighting to take place ; but-I conceived it to be between the bees of the adjoining hives , and ithose which were removing ; the former being attracted by the scent of the honey , :which thelatter werecarrying off On the farm which I occupy , there were formerly many old decayed trees , the cavities of which were frequently Xocupie by swarms of bees ; and when these were destroyed , a board was generally fitted to the aperture which had been made to extract the honey ; and the cavity was thus prepared for the reception of another swarm , in the succeeding season .
Whenever a swarm came , I constantly observed , that about fourteen days previous to their arrival a small number of bees , varying from twenty to fifty , were every day employed in examining , and apparently in keeping possession of the cavity ; for if molested , they showed evident signs of displeasure , though they never employed their stings in defending their proposed habitation .
Their examination was not confined to the cavity , but extended to the external parts of the tree above ; and every dead knot particularly arrested their attention ; as if they had been apprehensive of being injured lie moisture which this might admit into the cavity below ; and they apparently did not leave any part of the bark near the cavity unexamined .
A part of the colony , which purposed to emigrate , appeared in this case to have been delegated to search for a proper habitation ; and the individual who succeeded must have apparently had some means of conveying information of his success to others ; for it cannot be supposed that fifty bees should each accidentally meet at , and fix upon , the same cavity , at a mile distant from their hive ; which I have frequently observed them to do , in a wood where several trees were adapted for their reception ; and indeed I observed that they almost uniformly selected that cavity which I thought best adapted to their use .
It not unfrequently happened that swarms of my own bees took possession of these cavities , and such swarms were in several instances followed from my garden to the trees : and they were observed to deviate very little from the direct line between the one point and the other ; which seems to indicate that those bees which had formely acted as purveyors , now became guides .
Two instances came under my own observation in which a swarm was received into a cavity , of which another swarm had previous possession .
In the first instance I arrived with the swarm , and could not discover that the least opposition was made to their entrance : in the second instance , observing the direction that the swarm took , I used all the expedition I could to arrive first at the tree , to which I supposed they were going , whilst a servant followed them ; and a descent of ground being in my favour , and the wind against them , I succeeded in arriving at the tree some seconds before them ; and I am perfectly confident that not the least resistance was opposed to their entrance .
, Now it does not appear probable that animals so much attached to their property as bees are , so jealous of all approach towards it , and so ready to sacrifice their lives in defence of it , should suffer a colony of strangers , with whose intentions they were unacquainted , to take possession , without making some effort to defend it : nor does it seem much more probable that the same animals , which spent so much time in examining their future habitation , in the cases I have mentioned , should have attempted in this case to enter without knowing whether there was space sufficient to contain them , and without any examination at all .
I must therefore infer , that some previous intercourse had taken place between the two swarms , and that those in the possession of the cavities were not unacquainted with the intentions of their guests ; though the formation of any thing like an agreement between the different parties be scarcely consistent with .
the limitations generally supposed to be fixed by nature to the instinctive powers of the brute creation .
Brutes have evidently language ; but it is a language of passion only , and not of ideas .
They express to each other sentiments of love , of fear , and of anger ; but they appear to be wholly incapable of transmitting to each other any ideas they have received from the impression of externa'l objects .
They convey to other animals of their species , on the approach of an enemy , a sentiment of danger ; but they appear wholly incapable of communicating what the enemy is , or the kind of danger apprehended .
A language of more extelisive use seems , from the preceding circumstances , to have been given to bees ; and if it be not , in some degree , a language of ideas , it appears to be something very similar , When a swarm of bees issue from the parent hive , they generally soon settle on some neighbouring bush or tree ; and as in this situation they are generally not at all defended from rain or cold , it is often inferred that they are less amply gifted with those instinctive powers , that direct to self-preservation , than many other animals .
But their object in settling soon after they leave the hive is apparently nothing more than to collect their numbers ; and they have generally , I believe always , another place to which they intend subsequently to go : and if the situation they select be not perfectly adapted to secure them from injuries , it is probably , in almost all instances , the best they can discover .
For I have very often observed that when one of my hives was nearly ready to swarm , one of the hollow trees I have mentioned ( and generally that best adapted for the accommodation of a swarm ) was every day occupied by Ii 2,.e39 a small number of bees ; but that after the swarm had issued from that hive , and had taken possession of another , the tree was wholly deserted ; whence I inferred that the swarm , which would have taken possession of the cavity of that tree , had relinquished their intended migration , when a hive was offered them at home .
And I am much disposed to doubt , whether it be not rather habit , produced by domestication , during many successive generations , than any thing inherent in the nature of bees , which induces them to accept a hive , when offered them , in preference to the situation they have previously chosen : for I have noticed the disposition to migrate to exist in a much greater degree in some families of bees than in others ; and the offspring of domesticated animals inherit , in a very remarkable manner , the acquired habits of their parents .
In all animals this is observable ; but in the dog it exists to a wonderful extent ; and the offspring appears to inherit not only the passions and propensities , but even the resentments , of the family from which it springs .
I ascertained by repeated experiment that a terrier , whose parents had been in the habit of fighting with polecats , will instantly show every mark of anger when he first perceives the scent of that animal ; though the animal itself be wholly concealed from his sight .
A young spaniel brought up with the terriers showed no marks whatever of emotion at the scent of the polecat ; but it pursued a woodcock , the first time it saw one , with clamour and exultation : and a young pointer , which I am certain had never seen a partridge , stood trembling with anxiety , its eyes fixed , and its muscles rigid , when conducted into the midst of a covey of those birds .
Yet each of these dogs are mere varieties of the same species ; and to that species none of these habits are given by nature .
The peculiarities of character can therefore be traced to no other source than the acquired habits of the parents , which are inherited by the offspring , and become what I shall call instinctive hereditary propensities .
These propensities , or modifications of the natural instinctive powers of animals , are capable of endless variation and change ; and hence their habits soon become adapted to different countries and different states of domestication , the acquired habits of the parents being transferred hereditarily to the offspring .
Bees , like other animals , are probably susceptible of these changes of habit , and thence , when accustomed through many generations to the hive , in a country which does not afford hollow trees , or other habitations adapted to their purpose , they may become more dependent on man , and rely on his care wholly for an habitation ; but in situations where the cavities of trees present to them the means of providing for themselves , I have found that they will discover such trees in the closest recesses of the woods , and at an extraordinary distance from their hives ; and that they will keep possession of such cavities in the manner I have stated : and I am confident that , under such circumstances , a swarm never issues from the parent hive , without having previously selected some such place to retire to .
It has been remarked by Mr. JOHN HUNTER , that the matter which bees carry on their thighs is the farina of plants with which they feed their young ; and not the substance with which they make their combs ; and his statement is , I believe , perfectly correct : but I have observed , that they will also carry other things on their thighs .
I frequently covered the decorticated parts of trees , on which I was making experiments , with a cement composed of bees-wax and turpentine ; and in the autumn I have frequently observed a great number of bees employed in carrying off this substance .
They detached it from the tree with their forceps , and the little portion thus obltaied was then transferred by the first to the second leg , by which it was deposited on the thigh of the third : the farina of plants is collected and transferred in the same manner .
This mixture of wax and turpentine did not , however , appear to have been employed in the formation of combs ; but only to attach the hive to the board on which it was placed , and probably to exclude other insects , and air during winter .
Whilst the bees were employed in the collection of this substance , I had many opportunities of observing the peaceful and patiett disposition of them as individuals , which Mr. HUNTER has also , in some measure , noticed .
When one bee had collected its load , and was just prepared to take flight , another often came behind it , and despoiled it of all it had collected .
A second , and even a third , load Was collected and lost in the same manner , and still the patient insect pursued its labour , without betraying any symptoms of impatience , or resentment .
When , however , the hive is approached , the bee appears often to be the most irritable of all animals ; but a circumstance I have observed amongst another species of insects , whose habits are in many respects similar to those of bees , induces me to believe , that the readiness of the bees to attack those who approach their hives , does not in any degree spring either from the sense of injury or apprehensions of the individual , who makes the attack .
If a nest of wasps be approached without alarming its inhabitants , and all communication be suddenly cut off between those out of the nest , and those within it , no provocation will induce the former to defend their nest , or themselves .
But if one escape from within , it comes with a very different temper , and appears commissioned to avenge public wrongs , and prepared to sacrifice its life in the execution of its orders .
I discovered the circumstance , that wasps thus excluded from their nest would neither defend it , nor themselves , at a very early period of my life ; and I profited so often , by the discovery , as a sclool boy , that I am quite certain of the fact I state ; and I do not entertain any doubt , though I speak from experiments less accurately made , that the actions of bees , under simnilar circumstances , would be the same .
Mr. HUNTER conceived bees wax to be an animal substance , which exuded between the scales of the belly of the insect ; but I am strongly disposed to believe that it is collected from plants , and merely desposited between the scales of the belly *A curious circumstance , reative to wasps , attracted the notice of some of my friends last year , and has not , I believe , been satisfactorily accounted for .
A greater number of female wasps were observed in different parts of the kingdom , in the spring and early part of the summer of that year , than at almost any former period ; yet scarcely any nests , or labouring wasps , were seen in the following autumn ; the cause of which I believe I can explain .
Attending to some peach trees in my garden , late in the autumn of the year 1805 , on which I had been making experiments , I noticed , during many successive days , a vast number of female wasps , which appeared to have been attracted there by the shelter and wa'amth of a south wall ; but I did not observe any males .
At length , during a warm gleam in the middle of one of the days , a single male appeared , and selected a female close to me ; and this was the only male I saw in that season .
The male wasp , which is readily distinguishable from the female and labourer , by his long antennae and shining wings , and by a blacker and more slender body , is rarely seen out of the nest , except in very warm days , like the drone bee ; and the nests of wasps , though very abundant in the year i8o0 , were not formed till remarkably late in the season ; and thence I conclude that the males had not acquired .
maturity till the weather had ceased to be warm , and that the females , in consequence , .
retired to their long winter sleep without having had any intercourse with them of the bee , for the joint purposes of being carried with convenience , and giving the the temperature necessary for being moulded into combs : and I am led to this conclusion , not only by the circumstance of wax being found iinthet vegetable world , but also by having often observed bees employed in detaching something from the bases of the leaves of plants with their forceps , which they did not deposit on their thighs , as they do ( I believe invariably ) the farina of plants .
I have also frequently observed the combs of very late swarms to be remarkably thin and white , and brittle ; which are circumstances very favourable to the conclusion that the wax is a vegetable substance , for it would probably be less abundant during autumn than in summer ; and that portion which had remained on the plants till late in the season would hence become more colourless by exposure to light , as well as more dry and brittle , than when at first exuded ; but were it an animal substance , there does not appear any reason why it should be more dry and brittle , or less abundant , in the autumn , than in the spring and summer .
The conclusions of Mr. I UNTER are , however , always drawn with so much caution , and he united so much skill and science with the greatest degree of industry , that it is not without much hesitation and diffidence , that I venture to put my opinion in opposition to his authority .
T. A. KNIGHT .
Elton , May 4 , 1807 , 244

