XX , On the Origin and Oice of the Alburnumn of Trees .
In a Letterfrom T. A. Knight , Esq. F. R. S. to Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read June 30 , 18o8 .
MY DEAR SIR , IN my last communication I endeavoured to prove that the bark of trees is not subsequently transmuted into alburnum ; and if the statements that I have there given be correct , they are , I conceive , decisive on the point for which I contended : and if the bark be not converted into alburnum , the experiments of DUHAMEL , and subsequent naturalists , and those of which I have given an account in former memoirs , afford sufficient evidence that the bark deposits the alburnous matter .
If the succulent shoot of a horse chesnut , or other tree , be examined , at successive periods in the spring , it will be seen that the alburnum is deposited , and its tubes arranged , in ridges beneath the cortical vessels ; and the number of these ridges , at the base of each leaf , will be found to correspond accurately with the number of apertures through which the vessels pass from the leaf-stalks into the interior bark , the alburnous matter being apparently deposited ( as I have endeavoured to prove in former memoirs ) by a fluid which descends from the leaves , and subsequently secretes through the bark.* I shall therefore venture to conclude that it is : thus deposited , and shall proceed to enquire into the origin and office of the alburnous tubes .
The position and direction of these tubes have induced almost all naturalists to consider them as the passages through which the sap ascends ; and at their first formation , when the substance which surrounds them is still soft and succulent , they are always filled with the fluid , which has apparently secreted from the bark .
They appear to be formed in the soft cellular mass , which becomes the future alburnum , as receptacles of this fluid , to which they may either afford a passage upwards , or simply retain it as reservoirs , till absorbed , and carried off , by the surrounding cellular substance .
The former supposition is , at first view , the most probable ; but the latter is much more consistent with the circumstances that I shall proceed to state .
Many different hypothesis have been offered by naturalists to account for the force with which the sap ascends in the spring ; of these hypotheses two only appear in any degree adequate to the effects produced .
SAUSSURE , jun .
supposes that the tubes contract as soon as they have received the sap in the root , and that this contraction , commencing in the root , proceeds upwards , impelling the sap before it : and I have suggested that the expansion and contraction of the compressed cellular , or laminated substance ( the tissue cellulaire of DUHAMEL and MIRBEL ) which expands and contracts with change of temperature * after the tree has ceased to live , might produce similar effects by occasioning nearly a similar motion and compression of the tubes , the coats of which are , I believe , .
universally admitted not to be membranous .
But both these hypotheses are inconsistent with the facts that I have now the pleasure to communicate to you .
Selecting parts of the stems of young trees , from which annual branches , had sprung in the preceding year , I ascertained by injecting coloured infusions into the stems , through the annual shoots , that the tubes which descended from the latter , were , at their bases , confined to that side of the stem from which they sprang , and to the external annual layer of wood .
Deep incisions were then made into the stems of other trees inmmediately beneath the bases of similar annual shoots , by which I am quite confident that all communication through the alburnous tubes , with the stem , was wholly cut off : yet the sap passed into the annual shoots in the succeeding spring , all of which lived , and some grew with considerable vigour .
I , at the same time , selected many lateral branches , about three lines in diameter , in a nursery of apple trees , which I could easily secure to the stems of the adjoining trees to prevent their being broken .
I then made an incision , more than two lines deep in each , on one side , and at the distance of six or seven lines another incision , eqially deep , on the opposite side ; and as I am quite certain , from the texture of these branches that the alburnous tubes passed straight through them , I am equally certain that every aiburnous tube was at least once intersected .
Yet the sap passed into these branches , and their buds unfolded in the succeeding spring , the incisions having been made in the winter .
But I have repeated the same experiment after the leaves have been full grown in the summer , and still the branches have continued to live .
All naturalists have agreed in stating that trees perspire Ss 2 S15 most in the summer , when their leaves have attained their full growth , and of course that much sap must ascend at this period ; yet at this period the tubes of the alburnumn appear dry , and to contain air only ; which induced GREW to suppose that the sap rose in the state of vapour ; a supposition by no means admissible .
Yet it is , I conceive , evident that the sap call not rise , as a liquid , through dry tubes , nor in any state through intersected tubes ; and therefore it appears probable that it does not rise at all through the tubes of the alburnum , and that those tubes are intended to execute a different office .
If the sap do not rise through the tubes of the alburnum , it must rise through the cellular substance ; yet the passage of any fluid through this has been denlied by almost every naturalist , probably because coloured infusions .
lave not been observed to penetrate it , and because many naturalists have considered it as mere compressed medulla .
MIRBEL , however , contends that the fluid which generates the new bark exudes from it ; and although a fluid , capable of producing the same effects , exudes from the bark , when detached from the alburnum , I am much disposed to coincide with him in opinion , having observed a new bark to be generated on the surface of the cellular substance of pollard oaks , in detached spaces.* And if the sap in sufficient quantity to generate a new bark can pass through the cellular substance of an oak , it appears possible at least that the whole of the sap may ascend through it .
Coloured infusions do not , I think , in any degree , pass through the bark of trees , yet it is evident that the sap passes readily through it ; and therefore , should it be Phil. Trans. I8o7 , p. 7 , 3gSi proved that such infusions do not penetrate the cellular substance of the alburnum , the evidence which this circumstance would afford would be very defective .
Amongst other experiments that I made to ascertain whether the cellular substance of the alburnum would imbibe coloured infusions , I took off branches of two years old with the annual shoots and leaves attached to them , in the summer , from trees of different species ; and I effectually closed the alburnous tubes with a composition formed of calcined oyster shells and cheese , * and this was covered with a mixture of bees wax and turpentine , so as to effectually exclude all moisture .
A part of the bark was taken off each branch , in a circle round it , a few lines distant from its lower end , where the tubes had been closed ; and each branch was then placed in a decoction of logwood , in a vessel deep enough to cover the decorticated spaces .
At the end of twenty hours , or somewhat longer periods , these branches were examined , and the coloured infusion was found to have insinuated itself between the alburnous tubes , in many instances apparently through the cellular substance .
'Ihis was most obvious in the walnut tree , the young wood of which is very white .
The principal object I had in view in making this experiment , was to detect the passages through which I conceived the sap to pass from the bark into the alburnum .
From the preceding circumstances , I am disposed to infer that the sap secretes through the cellular substance of the aiburnum ; and throughl this I conceive that it must ascend when the tubes were intersected in the preceding experiments , and in those seasons of the year when the alburnous tubes are empty , though the sap must be rising with great rapidity : and I shall endeavour to show that the presence of the sap in the alburnous tubes , during that part of the year in which trees , when wounded , bleed abundantly , does not afford any decisive evidence of the ascent of the sap through those tubes .
In the last spring , when the buds of the sycamore first began to prepare for unfolding , I found that the sap abounded in the points at the annual branches ; and at the same time it flowed abundantly from incisions made into the alburnum near the root .
But when similar incisions were made at the distance of eight or ten feet from the ground , not the least moisture flowed ; and the tubes of the alburnum appeared to contain air only .
I also observed that the sap flowed as abundantly from the upper as from the under side of the lower incisions , if not more abundantly , and so it continued to flow to the end of the bleeding season .
The sap must therefore have been , by some means , thrown into the tubes above the incisions , for the quantity discharged from them exceeded more than a hundred times that which the tubes could have contained at the time the incisions were made , even had every tube been filled to the extremity of the most distant branch .
And , as it has been shown that the sap can pass up when all the alburnous tubes are intersected , there appears , I think , sufficient evidence that it must in this case have been raised by some other agent than those tubes .
Through the cellular substance I therefore venture to conelude that the sap ascends , and it is not , I think , difficult to conceive that this substance may give the impulse with which the sap is known to ascend in the spring .
I have shown that the bark more readily transmits the descending sap towards the roots than towards the points of the branches ; * and if the cellular substance of the alburnum expand and contract , and be so organised as to permit the sap to escape more easily upwards from one cell to another , than in any other direction , it will be readily impelled to the extremities of the branches : and I have shown that the statement , so often repeated in the writings of naturalists , of a power in the alburnul to transmit the sap with equal facility in opposite directions , and as well through inverted cuttings as others , is totally erroneous.t If the sap be raised in the manner I have suggested , much of it will probably accumulate in the alburnum in the spring ; because the powers of vegetable life are , at that period , more active than at any other season ; and the leaves are not then prepared to throw off any part of it by transpiration .
And the cellular substance , being then filled , may discharge a part of its contents into the alburnous tubes , which again become reservoirs , and are filled to a greater or less height , in proportion to the vigour of the tree , and the state of the soil and season : and if the tubes which are thus filled be divided , the sap will flow out of them , and the tree will be said to bleed .
But as soon as the leaves are unfolded , and begin to execute their office , the sap will be drawn from its reservoirs , and the tree will cease to bleed , if wounded .
The alburnous tubes appear to answer another purpose in 3 , Q trees , and to be analogous , in some degree , in their effects , to the cavities in the bones of animals ; by which any degree of strength , that is necessary , is given with less expenditure of materials , or the incumberance of unnecessary weight ; and the wood of many different species of trees is thus made , at the same time , very light , and very strong , the rigid vegetable fibres being placed at greater distances from each other by the intervention of alburnous tubes , aand consequently acting with greater mechanical advantage , than they would if placeiditmmediatelyinl contact with each other .
I have shown in a former communication , that the specific gravity of the sap increases during its ascent in the spring , and that saccharine matter is generated , which did not previously exist in the alburnum , nor in the sap , as it rose from the root : and I conceive it not to be improbable , that the air contained in the alburnous tubes may be instrumental in the generation of this saccharine matter .
For I discovered in the last autumn , that much air is absorbed , or at least disappears , during the process of grinding apples for the purpose of making cider , and that during this absorption of air , the juice of acid apples becomes very sweet , and acquires many degrees of increased specific gravity ; and a similar absorption of air , with corresponding effects , is well known to take place in the process of making .
I shall conclude with observing , that in retracting the opinion I formerly entertained respecting the ascent of the sap in the alburnous tubes , I do not mean to retract any opinion that I have given in former communications respecting the subsequent motion of the sap through the central vessels , the leaves , and bark ; or the subsequent junction of the descending with the ascending current in the alburnum : every experiment that I have made has , on the contrary , tended to confirm my former conclusions .
I am , MY DEAR SIR , Your much obliged , obedient Servant , THOMAS ANDREW KNIGHT .
E:lton , June 15 , 8o8 .

