I. " On the Molecular Mobility of Gases .
" By TIol-MAs GRAHAM , F.R.S. , Mastelr of the Mint .
Received May 7 , 1863 .
( Abstract ) .
The molecular mobility of gases is here considered in reference chiefly to the passage of gases , under pressure , through a thin porous plate or septum , and to the partial separation of mixed gases which can be effected , as will be shown , by such means .
The investigation * " On the Early Stages of Inflammation , " Phil. Trans. for 1858 .
1863 .
] 611 arose out of a renewed and somewhat protracted inquiry regarding the diffusion of gases ( depending upon the same molecular mobility ) , and has afforded certain new results which may prove to be of interest in a theoretical as well as in a practical point of view .
In the diffusiometer , as first constructed , a plain cylindrical glass tube , rather less than an inch in diameter and about ten inches in length , was simply closed at one end by a porous plate of plaster of paris , about one-third of an inch in thickness , and thus converted into a gas receiver* .
A superior material for the porous plate is now found in the artificially compressed graphite of Mr. Brockedon , of the quality used for making writing-pencils .
This material is sold in London in small cubic masses about 2 inches square .
A cube may easily be cut into slices of a millimetre or two in thickness by means of a saw of steel spring .
By rubbing the surface of the slice without wetting it upon a flat sand-stone , the thickness may be further reduced to about one-half of a millimetre .
A circular disk of this graphite , which is like a wafer in thickness but possesses considerable tenacity , is attached by resinous cement to one end of the glass tube above described , so as to close it and form a diffusiometer , The tube is filled with hydrogen gas over a mercurial trough , the porosity of the graphite plate being counteracted for the time by covering it tightly with a thin sheet of gutta percha .
On afterwards removing the latter , gaseous diffusion immediately takes place through the pores of the graphite .
The whole hydrogen will leave the tube in forty minutes or an hour , and is replaced by a much smaller proportion of atmospheric air ( about one fourth ) , as is to be expected from the law of the diffusion of gases .
During the process , the mercury will rise in the tube , if allowed , forming a column of several inches in height-a fact which illustrates strikingly the intensity of the force with which the interpenetration of different gases is effected .
The native or mineral graphite is of a lamellar structure , and appears to have little or no porosity .
It cannot be substituted for the artificial graphite as a diffusion-septum .
Unglazed earthenware comes next in value to graphite for this purpose .
The pores of artificial graphite appear to be really so minute , that a gas in mass cannot penetrate the plate at all .
It seems to be molecules only which can pass ; and these may be supposed to pass wholly unimpeded by friction , for the smallest pores that can be imagined to exist in the graphite must be tunnels in magnitude to the ultimate atoms of a gaseous body .
The sole motive agency appears to be that intestine movement of molecules which is now generally recognized as an essential property of the gaseous condition of matter .
According to the physical hypothesis now generally received ' , a gas is represented as consisting of solid and perfectly elastic spherical particles or atoms , which move in all directions , and are animated with different degrees of velocity in different gases .
Confined in a vessel , the moving particles are constantly impinging against its sides and occasionally against each other , and such collisions take place without any loss of motion , owing to the perfect elasticity of the particles .
Now if the containing vessel be porous , like a diffusiometer , then gas is projected through the open channels , by the atomic motion described , and escapes .
Simultaneously the external air or gas , whatever it may be , is carried inwards in the same manner , and takes the place of the gas which leaves the vessel .
To the same atomic or molecular movement is due the elastic force , with the power to resist compression , possessed by gases .
The molecular movement is accelerated by heat and retarded by cold , the tension of the gas being increased in the first instance and diminished in the second .
Even when the same gas is present both within and without the vessel , and is therefore in contact with both sides of the porous plate , the movement is sustained without abatement-molecules continuing to enter and leave in equal number , although nothing of the kind is indicated by change of volume or otherwise .
If the gases in communication be different but possess sensibly the same specific gravity and molecular velocity , as nitrogen and carbonic oxide do , an interchange of molecules also takes place without any change in volume .
With gases opposed of unequal density and molecular velocity , the amount of penetration ceases of course to be equal in both directions .
* D. Bernoulli , J. Herapath , Joule , KrInig , Clausius , Clerk Maxwell , and Cazin .
The merit of reviving this hypothesis and first applying it to the facts of gaseous diffusion , is fairly due to Mr. Herapath .
See 'Mathematical Physics , ' in two volumes , by John Herapath , Esq. ( 1847 ) .
These observations are preliminary to the consideration of the passage through a graphite plate , in one direction only , of gas under pressure , or under the influence of its own elastic force .
It is to be supposed that a vacuum is maintained on one side of the porous septum , and that air or some other gas , under a constant pressure , is in contact with the other side .
Now a gas may pass into a vacuum in three different modes , or in two modes besides that immediately before us .
1 .
The gas may enter the vacuum by passing through a minute aperture in a thin plate , such as a puncture in platinum foil made by a fine steel point .
The rate of passage of different gases is then regulated by their specific gravities , according to a pneumatic law which was deduced by Professor John Robison from Torricelli 's well-known theorem of the velocity of efflux of fluids .
A gas rushes into a vacuum with the velocity which a heavy body would acquire by falling from the height of an atmosphere composed of the gas in question , and supposed to be of uniform density throughout .
The height of the uniform atmosphere will be inversely as the specific gravity of the gas , the atmosphere of hydrogen , for instance , sixteen times higher than that of oxygen .
But as the velocity acquired by a heavy body in falling is not directly as the height , but as the square root of the height , the rate of flow of different gases into a vacuum will be inversely as the square root of their respective densities .
The velocity of oxygen being 1 , that of hydrogen will be 4 , the square root of 16 .
This law has been experimentally verified* .
The times of the effusion of gases , as I have spoken of it , are similar to those of the law of molecular diffusion ; but it is important to observe that the phenomena of effusion and diffusion are distinct and essentially different in their nature .
The effusion movement affects masses of gas , the diffusion movement affects molecules ; and a gas is usually carried by the former kind of impulse with avelocity many thousand times greater than by the latter .
The effusion velocity of air is the same as the velocity of sound .
2 .
If the aperture of efflux be in a plate of increased thickness , and so becomes a tube , the effusion-rates of gases are disturbed .
The rates of flow of different gases , however , assume again a constant ratio to each other when the capillary tube is considerably elongated , when the length exceeds , the diameter at least 4000 times .
These new proportions of efflux are the rates of the " Capillary Transpiration of Gases " * .
The rates were found to be the same in a capillary tube composed of copper as they are in a tube of glass , and appear to be independent of the material of the capillary .
A film of gas no doubt adheres to the inner surface of the tube , and the friction is really that of gas upon gas , and is consequently unaffected by the nature of the tube-substance .
The rates of transpiration are not governed by specific gravity , and are indeed singularly unlike the rates of effusion .
The transpiration-velocity of oxygen being 1 , that of chlorine is 1'5 , that of hydrogen 2'26 , of ether vapour at low temperatures the same or nearly the same number as hydrogen , of nitrogen and carbonic oxide half the velocity of hydrogen , of olefiant gas , ammonia , and cyanogen 2 ( double or nearly double that of oxygen ) , of carbonic acid 13 76 , and of the gas of marshes 1'815 .
In the same gas the transpirability of equal volumes increases with density , whether occasioned by cold or pressure .
The transpiration-ratios of gases appear to be in constant relation with no other known property of the same gases , and they form a class of phenomena remarkably isolated from all else at present known of gases .
There is one property of transpiration immediately bearing upon the penetration of the graphite plate by gases .
The capillary offers to the passage of gas a resistance analogous to that of friction , proportional to the surface , and consequently increasing as the tube or tubes are multiplied in number and diminished in diameter , with the area of discharge preserved constant .
The resistance to the passage of a liquid through a capillary was observed by Poiseuille to be nearly as the fourth power of the diameter of the tube .
In gases the resistance also rapidly increases ; but in what ratio , has not been observed .
The consequence , however , is certain , that as the diameter of the capillaries may be diminished beyond any assignable limit , so the flow may be retarded indefinitely , and caused at last to become too small to be sensible .
We may therefore have a mass of capillaries of which the passages form a large aggregate , but which are individually too small to permit a sensible flow of gas under pressure .
A porous solid mass may possess the same reduced penetrability as the congeries of capillary tubes .
Indeed the state of porosity described appears to be more or less closely approached by all loosely aggregated mineral masses , such as lime plaster , stucco , chalk , baked clay , non-crystalline earthy powders like hydrate of lime or magnesia compacted by pressure , and in the highest degree perhaps by artificial graphite .
3 .
A plate of artificial graphite , although it appears to be practically impenetrable to gas by either of the two modes of passage previously described , is readily penetrated by the agency of the molecular or diffusive movement of gases .
This appears on comparing the time required for the passage of equal volumes of different gases under a constant ptessure .
Of the following three gases , oxygen , hydrogen , and carbonic acid , the time required for the passage of an equal volume of each through a capillary glass tube , in similar circumstances as to pressure and temperature , was formerly observed to be as follows : Time of capillary transpiration .
Oxygen ... ... ... ... .
1 Carbonic acid ... ... ... 0'72 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... . .
044 Through a plate of graphite , of half a millimetre in thickness , the same gases were now observed to pass , under a constant pressure of a column of mercury of 100 millimetres in height , in times which are as follows : Time of molecular Square root of density passage .
( oxygen 1 ) .
Oxygen ... ... ... 1 ... .
1 Iydrogen ... ... ... .
0-2472 ... .
0-2502 Carbonic acid ... ... . .
11886 ... .
11760 It appears then that the times of passage through the graphite plate have no relation to the capillary transpiration-times of the same gases first quoted above .
The new times in question , however , show a close relation to the square roots of the densities of the respective gases , as is seen in the last Table ; and so far they agree with theoretical times of difusion usually ascribed to the same gases .
The experiments were varied by causing the gases to pass into a Torricellian vacuum , and consequently under the full pressure of the 616 atmosphere .
The times of penetration of equal volumes of gases were nowTimes .
V/ Density , Oxygen ... ... ... . .
1 ... .
1 Air.0 ... ... ... ... 9501 ... .
09507 Carbonic acid ... ... 1-1860 ... .
1P1760 Hydrogen ... ... ... 0-2505 ... .
0-2502 This penetration of the graphite plate by gases appears to be entirely due to their own proper molecular motion , quite unaided by transpiration .
It seems to offer the simplest possible exhibition of the molecular or diffusive movement .
This pure result is to be ascribed to the wonderfully fine porosity of the graphite .
The interstitial spaces , or channels , appear to be sufficiently small to extinguish transpiration , or the passage of masses , entirely .
The graphite becomes a molecular sieve , allowing molecules only to pass through .
With a plate of stucco , the penetration of gases under pressure is very rapid , and the volumes of air and hydrogen passing in equal times are as 1 to 2'891 , which is a number for hydrogen intermediate between its transpiration-volume 2'04 and diffusion-volume 3 8 , showing that the passage through stucco is a mixed result .
With a plate of biscuitware , 2-2 millimetres in thickness , the volume of hydrogen rose to 3'754 ( air= 1 ) , approaching closely to 3'8 , the molecular ratio .
The rate of passage of a gas through graphite appeared also to be closely proportional to the pressure .
Further , hydrogen was found to penetrate through a graphite plate into a vacuum , with sensibly the same absolute velocity as it diffused into air , establishing the important fact that the impelling force is the same in both movements .
The molecular mobility may therefore be spoken of as the diffusive movement of gases ; the passage of gas through a porous plate into vacuum , as diffusion in one direction or single diffusion ; and ordinary diffusion , or the passage of two gases in opposite directions , as double , compound , or reciprocal diffusion .
Atmolysis.-A partial separation of mixed gases and vapours of unequal diffusibility can be effected by allowing the mixture to permeate through a graphite plate into a vacuum , as was to be expected from the preceding views .
As this method of analysis has a practical character and admits of wide application , it may be convenient to 1863 .
] 617 distinguish it by a peculiar name .
The amount of the separation is in proportion to the pressure , and attains its maximum when the gases pass into a nearly perfect vacuum .
A variety of experiments were made on this subject , of which perhaps the most interesting were those upon the concentration of the oxygen in atmospheric air .
When a portion of air confined in a jar is allowed to penetrate into a vacuum through graphite or unglazed earthenware , the nitrogen should pass more rapidly than the oxygen in the proportion of 1'0668 to 1 , and the proportion of oxygen be proportionally increased in the air left behind in the jar .
The increase in the oxygen actually observed when the air in the jar was reduced from 1 volume To 0'5 volume , was 0'48 per cent. 0-25 , , , , 0'98 0-125 , 1-54 0-0625 , , , 2-02 Or , the oxygen increased from 21 to 23'02 per cent. in the last sixteenth part of air left behind in the jar .
The most remarkable effects of separation are produced by means of the tu6e atmolyser .
This is simply a narrow tube of unglazed earthenware , such as a tobacco-pipe stem two feet in length , which is placedwithin a shorter tube of glass and secured in its position by corks , so as to appear like a Liebig 's condenser .
The glass tube is placed in communication with an air-pump , and the annular space between the two tubes is maintained as nearly vacuous as possible .
Air or any other mixed gas is then allowed to flow in a stream along the clay tube , and collected as it issues .
The gas so atmolysed is of course reduced in volume , much gas penetrating through the pores of the clay tube into the air-pump vacuum ; and the slower the gas is collected the greater the proportional loss .
In the gas collected , the denser constituent of the mixture is thus concentrated in an arithmetical ratio , while the volume of the gas is reduced in a geometrical ratio .
In one experiment the proportion of oxygen in the air after traversing the atmolyser was increased to 24-5 per cent. , or 16'7 upon 100 oxygen originally present in the air .
With gases differing so much in density and diffusibility as oxygen and hydrogen , the separation is of course much more considerable .
The explosive mixture of two volumes of hydrogen and one volume of oxygen , gave oxygen containing only 93 per cent. of hydrogen , in which a taper burned without explosion ; and with equal volumes of oxygen and hydrogen , the proportion of the latter was easily reduced from 50 to 5 per cent. Interdifusion of Gases-double diffusion.-The diffusiometer was much improved in construction by Prof. Bunsen , from the application of a lever arrangement to raise and depress the tube in the mercurial trough .
But the mass of stucco forming the porous plate in his instrumeht was too voluminous , in my opinion , and , from being dried by heat , had probably detached itself from the walls of the glass tube .
The result obtained of 3 4for hydrogen , air being 1 , is , I understand , no longer insisted upon by that illustrious physicist .
It is indeed curious that my old experiments generally rather exceeded than fell short of the theoretical number for hydrogen , 9=7997 .
With stucco as the material , the cavities in the porous plate form about one-fourth of its bulk , and affect sensibly the ratio in question , according as they are or are not included in the capacity of the instrument .
Beginning the diffusion always with these cavities filled with hydrogen , the numbers now obtained with a stucco plate of 12 millims. in thickness , dried without heat , were 3 783 , 3'8 , and 3'739 when the volume of the cavities of stucco is added to the air and hydrogen , and 3'931 , 3'949 , and 3*883 when such addition is not made to these volumes .
The graphite plate , on the other hand , being thin , and the volume of its pores too minute to require to be taken into account , its action is not attended with the same uncertainty .
With a graphite plate of 2 millims. in thickness , the number for hydrogen into air was 3'876 , and of hydrogen into oxygen 4'124 , instead of 4 .
With a graphite plate of 1 millim. in thickness , hydrogen gave 3'993 to air I. With a graphite plate of 0'5 millim. in thickness , the proportional number for hydrogen to air rose to 3*984 , 4*068 , and 4'067 .
A similar departure from the theoretical number was observed when hydrogen was diffused into oxygen or carbonic acid , instead of air .
All these experiments were made over mercury and with dried gases .
It appears that the numbers are most in accordance with theory when the graphite plate is thick , and the diffusion slow in consequence .
If the diffusion be very rapid , as it is with the thin plates , something like a current is possibly formed in the channels of the graphite , 1863 .
] 619 taking the direction of the hydrogen and carrying back in mass a little air , or the slower gas , whatever it may be .
I cannot account otherwise for the slight predominance which the lighter and faster gas appears always to acquire in diffusing through the porous septum .
Speculative ideas respecting the constitution of matter .
It is conceivable that the various kinds of matter , now recognized as different elementary substances , may possess one and the same ultimate or atomic molecule existing in different conditions of movement .
The essential unity of matter is an hypothesis in harmony with the equal action of gravity upon all bodies .
We know the anxiety with which this point was investigated by Newton , and the care he took to ascertain that every kind of substance , " metals , stones , woods , grain , salts , animal substances , &amp;c. , " are similarly accelerated in falling , and are therefore equally heavy .
In the condition of gas , matter is deprived of numerous and vary .
ing properties with which it appears invested when in the form of a liquid or solid .
The gas exhibits only a few grand and simple features .
These again may all be dependent upon atomic and molecular mobility .
Let us imagine one kind of substance only to exist , ponderable matter ; and further , that matter is divisible into ultimate atoms , uniform in size and weight .
We shall have one substance and a common atom .
With the atom at rest the uniformity of matter would be perfect .
But the atom possesses always more or less motion , due , it must be assumed , to a primordial impulse .
This motion gives rise to volume .
The more rapid the movement the greater the space occupied by the atom , somewhat as the orbit of a planet widens with the degree of projectile velocity .
Matter is thus made to differ only in being lighter or denser matter .
The specific motion of an atom being inalienable , light matter is no longer convertible into heavy matter .
In short , matter of different density forms different substances-different inconvertible elements as they have been considered .
What has already been said is not meant to apply to the gaseous volumes which we have occasion to measure and practically deal with , but to a lower order of molecules or atoms .
The combining atoms hitherto spoken of are therefore not the molecules of which the movement is sensibly affected by heat , with gaseous expansion as 620 [ June 18 , the result .
The gaseous molecule must itself be viewed as composed of a group or system of the preceding inferior atoms , following as a unit laws similar to those which regulate its constituent atoms .
We have indeed carried one step backward and applied to the lower order of atoms ideas suggested by the gaseous molecule , as views derived from the solar system are extended to the subordinate system of a planet and its satellites .
The advance of science may further require an indefinite repetition of such steps of molecular division .
The gaseous molecule is then a reproduction of the inferior atom on a higher scale .
The molecule or system is reached which is affected by heat , the diffusive molecule , of which the movement is the subject of observation and measurement .
The diffusive molecules are also to be supposed uniform in weight , but to vary in velocity of movement , in correspondence with their constituent atoms .
Accordingly the molecular volumes of different elementary substances have the same relation to each other as the subordinate atomic volumes of the same substances .
But further , these more and less mobile or light and heavy forms of matter have a singular relation connected with equality of volume .
Equal volumes of two of them can coalesce together , unite their movement , and form a new atomic group , retaining the whole , the half , or some simple proportion of the original movement and consequent volume .
This is chemical combination .
It is directly an affair of volume , and only indirectly connected with weight .
Combining weights are different , because the densities , atomic and molecular , are different .
The volume of combination is uniform , but the fluids measured vary in density .
This fixed combining measure the metron of simple substances-weighs 1 for hydrogen , 16 for oxygen , and so on with the other " elements .
" To the preceding statements respecting atomic and molecular mobility , it remains to be added that the hypothesis admits of another expression .
As in the theory of light we have the alternative hypotheses of emission and undulation , so in molecular mobility the motion may be assumed to reside either in separate atoms and molecules , or in a fluid medium caused to undulate .
A special rate of vibration or pulsation originally imparted to a portion of the fluid medium enlivens that portion of matter with an individual existence , and constitutes it a distinct substance or element .
621 With respect to the different states of gas , liquid , and solid , it may be observed that there is no real incompatibility with each other in these physical conditions .
They are often found together in the same substance .
The liquid and the solid conditions supervene upon the gaseous condition rather than supersede it .
Gay-Lussac made the remarkable observation that the vapours emitted by ice and water , both at 0 ?
C. , are of exactly equal tension .
The passage from the liquid to the solid state is not made apparent in the volatility of water .
The liquid and solid conditions do not appear as the extinction or suppression of the gaseous condition , but something superadded to that condition .
The three conditions ( or constitutions ) probably always coexist in every liquid or solid substance , but one predominates over the others .
In the general properties of matter we have , indeed , to include still further ( 1 ) the remarkable loss of elasticity in vapours under great pressure , which is distinguished by Mr. Faraday as the Caignard-Latour state , after the name of its discoverer , and is now undergoing an investigation by Dr. Andrews , which may be expected to throw much light upon its nature ; ( 2 ) the colloidal condition or constitution , which intervenes between the liquid and crystalline states , extending into both and affecting probably all kinds of solid and liquid matter in a greater or less degree .
The predominance of a certain physical state in a substance appears to be a distinction of a kind with those distinctions recognized in natural history as being produced by unequal development .
Liquefaction or solidification may therefore not involve the suppression of either the atomic or the molecular movement , but only the restriction of its range .
The hypothesis of atomic movement has been elsewhere assumed , irrespective of the gaseous condition , and is applied by Dr. Williamson to the elucidation of a remarkable class of chemical reactions which have their seat in a mixed liquid .
Lastly , molecular or diffusive mobility has an obvious bearing upon the communication of heat to gases by contact with liquid or solid surfaces .
The impact of the gaseous molecule , upon a surface possessing a different temperature , appears to be the condition for the transference of heat , or the heat movement , from one to the other .
The more rapid the molecular movement of the gas the more frequent the contact , with consequent communication of heat .
Hence , probably , the great cooling power of hydrogen gas as compared with air 62 or oxygen .
The gases named have the same specific heat for equal volumes ; but a hot object placed in hydrogen is really touched 3'8 times more frequently than it would be if placed in air , and 4 times more frequently than it would be if placed in an atmosphere of oxygen gas .
Dalton had already ascribed this peculiarity of hydrogen to the high " mobility " of that gas .
The same molecular property of hydrogen recommends the application of that gas in the air-engine , where the object is to alternately heat and cool a confined volume of gas with rapidity .

