On theFormation of the Bark of Trees .
In aLetterfromThomasAndrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. &amp;c. Read February 19 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 103 .
] An extraordinary diversity of opinion having prevailed amongst naturalists most capable of correct observation , respecting the production and subsequent state of the bark of trees , Mr. Knight has undertaken to investigate the subject : but such are the difficulties of the subject , that , in a course of experiment which has occupied more than twenty years , he has scarcely felt himself prepared , till the present time , even to give an opinion of the manner in which the cortical substance is either generated in the ordinary course of its growth , or re-produced when that which previously existed has been taken off .
Du Hainel had shown , that the bark of some species of trees is readily re-produced when the decorticated alburnum is secluded from the air .
Mr. Knight has repeated these experiments on the apple , the sycamore , and some other trees , with the same result ; and has also observed , that the wych-elm , in moist and shady situations , will frequently re-produce its bark when no covering whatever has been applied .
A glairy fluid ( as Du Hamel justly observes ) exudes from the surface of the alburnum , which appears to change into a pulpous organized mass , and subsequently becomes organized and cellular , facts which are extremely favourable to the opinion of Hales , that the bark is derived from the substance of the alburnum .
But other facts may be adduced which lead to a contrary conclusion ; since the internal surface of pieces of bark , when detached from contact with the alburnum , but remaining united to the tree at their upper ends , will much more readily generate a new bark than the alburnum does under similar circumstances .
A similar fluid exudes , and the same phenomena are observable , in both cases .
The cellular substance , however , which is thus generated is for some time very imperfectly organized , since the vessels which carry the true sap are at first wanting ; but , Mr. Knight has been enabled to trace their progress , and , by appropriate management , to direct the course of their growth laterally or downwards with a greater or less degree of inclination ; but observes , that their natural tendency is perpendicularly downwards , and that they cannot be made to extend themselves upwards excepting to a very short distance .
Mr. Knight having thus satisfied himself that both the alburnum and the bark of trees are capable of generating new bark , or at least of transmitting a fluid to which the bark owes its existence , his attention was next directed to discover the sources from which this fluid is derived .
Both the bark and the alburnum , he observes , are composed principally of two substances , one of which consists of long tubes , the other is cellular ; and the cellular substance of the bark is in contact with a similar substance in the alburnum .
Mr. Knight has shown , in former communications , that the true sap of trees acquires those properties which distinguish it from the fluid recently absorbed , by circulating through the leaf ; that it descends down the bark , where part of it is employed in generating the new substance annually added to the tree ; and that the remainder , not thus expended , passes into the alburnum , and there joins the ascending current of sap .
In the preceding experiments the cellular substance , both of the bark and alburnum , has been proved to be capable of affording the sap a passage through it ; and it therefore appears not very improbable that it executes an office similar to that of anastomosing vessels in the animal economy , when the cellular surfaces of the bark and alburnum are in contact with each other ; and hence the passing fluid is capable of exuding from both surfaces when they are detached ; because almost all the vessels of trees are capable of an inverted action in giving motion to the fluids they contain .
Since the power of generating new bark appeared to reside alike in the sap of the bark and in that of the alburnum , Mr. Knight endeavoured to ascertain whether the fluid which ascends through the central vessels of the succulent annual shoot possesses similar power .
For this purpose he removed the bark between two circular incisions round several annual shoots of the vine ; and having taken care to prevent the formation of new bark on the surface of the alburnum , he , after a day or two , made longitudinal incisions through the dry and lifeless alburnum .
These incisions commenced a little above and extended a little below the decorticated spaces .
A cellular substance was in consequence generated through the whole length of the incision , and a perfect vascular bark was subsequently formed , and appeared to execute the office of that which had been removed , although placed beneath the alburnum .
s TIhe medulla in this case appeared to be wholly inactive .
By an examination of buds which had been inserted in a preceding summer , or attached by grafting in the spring , it appeared that vessels diverged from them into the bark of the stock .
It seems therefore probable , that a pulpous organizable mass first derives its matter from the bark or alburnum , and that this matter subsequently forms the new layer of bark ; for if the vessels had proceeded as radicles ( according to Darwin 's supposition , ) from the inserted buds or grafts , such vessels would be different from the natural vessels of the stock ; neither is it probable that vessels could extend , by actual addition to their extremities in the course of a few days , from the leaves to the roots .
Mr. Knight is consequently inclined to believe that the matter itself which composes the new bark acquires an organization of vessels calculated to carry the true sap ; but whether , in the ordinary growth of trees , this matter be derived from the bark or the alburnum , or from both , it will be extremely difficult to determine .
This , however , is certain , that bark .
in many cases exists previous to the existence of alburnum ; but there seems to be no case , in the ordinary growth of vegetables , in which alburnum exists previous to the formation of bark .

