XIV .
" ( On the Properties of Silicic Acid and other analogous Col loidal Substances .
" By THIOMAS GRAIAm , FTR .
S. , Master of the Mint .
Received June 16 , 1864 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) The prevalent notions respecting solubility have been derived chiefly from observations on crystalline salts , and are very imperfectly applicable to the class of colloidal substances .
Hydrated silicic acid , for instance , when in the soluble conidition , is properly speaking a liquid body , like alcohol , miscible with water in all proportions .
We have no degrees of solubility to speak of with respect to silicic acid , like the degrees of solubility of a salt , unless it be with reference to silicic acid in the gelatinous condition , which is usually looked upon as destitute of solubility .
The jelly of silicic acid may be more or less rich in comubined water , as it is first prepared , and it appears to be soluble in proportion to the extent of its hydration .
A jelly containingi I per cent. of silicic acid , give with cold waver a solution containing about 1 of silicic acid in 5000 water ; a jelly containing 5 per cent. of silicic acid , gives a solution containing about 1 part of acid in 10,000 water .
A less hydrated jelly than the last mentioned is still less soluble ; and finially , when the jelly is rendered anhydrous , it gives gummy-looking white masses , which appear to be absolutely insoluble , like the light dusty silicic acid obtaiined by drying a jelly charged with salts , in the ordiniary analysis of a silicate .
The liquidity of silicic acid is only affected by a change , which is permament ( namely , coagtulation or pectization ) , by which the acid is converted into the gelatinous or pectous form , and loses its miscibility with water .
The liquidity is permanent in proportion to the degree of dilution of silicic acid , and appears to be favoured by a low temperature .
It is opposed , on the contrary , by concentration , and by elev , ation of temperature .
A liquid silicie acid of 10 or 12 per'cent .
pectizes spontaneously in a few hours at the ordinary temperature , and immediately when heated .
A liquid of 5 per cent. may be preserved for five or six days ; a liquid of 2 per cent. for two or three months ; and a liquid of 1 per cent. has not pectized after two years .
Dilute solutions of 01 per cen t. or less are no doubt practically unalterable by time , and hence the possibility of soluble silicic acid existing in nature .
I may add , however , that no solution , weak or strong , of silicic acid in water has shown any dispositioni to deposit crystals , but always appears on drying as a colloidal glassy hyalite .
The formation of quartz crystals at a low temperature , of so frequent occurrencee in nature , remains still a mystery .
I cani only imagine that suLch crystals are formed at an inconceivably slow rate , and from soltutions of silicie acid which are extremely dilute .
Dilution no doubt weakens the colloidal chIaracter of substances , and may therefore allow their crystallizing tendency to gain grouncl and develope itself , particularly where the crystal once formed is completely insoluble , as with quartz .
The pectization of liquid silicic acid is expedited by contact with solid matter in the form of powder .
By contact with pounded graphite , which is chemically iractive , the pectization of a5 per cent. silicic acid is brought about in an hour or two , and that of a2 per cenit .
silicic acid in two days .
A rise of temperature of 10 1 C. was observed during the formation of the 5 per cent. jelly .
The ultimate pectization of silicic acid is preceded by a gradual thickening in the liquid itself .
The flow of liquid colloids through a capillary tube is always slow compared with the flow of crystalloid solutions , so that a liquid-transpiration-tube may be employed as a colloidoscope .
With a colloidal liquiid alterable in viscosity , such as silicic acid , the increased resistance to passage through the colloidoscope is obvious from day to day .
Just before gelatinizing , silicic acid flows like an oil .
A dominating quality of colloids is the tendency of their particles to adhere , aggregate , and contract .
This idio-attraction is obvious in the gradual thickening of the liquid , and when it advances leads to pectization .
In the jelly itself , the specific contraction in question , or syneeresis , still proceeds , causing separation of water , with the division into a clot and serum ; and ending in the production of a hard stony mass , of vitreous structure , which may be anhydrous , or nearly so , when the water is allowed to escape by evaporation .
The intense synapresis of isinglass dried in a glass dish over sulphuric acid in vacuo , enables the contracting gelatin to tear uip the surface of the glass .
Glass itself is a colloid , and the adhesion of colloid to colloid appears to be more powerful than that of colloid to crystalloid .
The gelatin , when dried in the manner described upon plates of calcspar and mica , did not adhere to the crystalline surface , but detached itself on drying .
Polished plates of glass must not be left in contact , as is well known , owing to the risk of permanent adhesion between their surfaces .
The adhesion of broken masses of glacial phosphoric acid to each other is an old illustration of colloidal syneeresis .
Bearing in mind that the colloidal phasis of matter is the result of a peculiar attraction and aggregation of molecules , properties never entirely absent from matter but greatly more developed in some substances than in others , it is not surprising that colloidal characters spread on both sides into theliquid and solid conditions .
These characters appear in the viscidity of liquids , and in the softness and adhesiveness of certain crystalline substances .
Metaphosphate of soda , after fusion by heat , is a true glass or colloid ; but when this glass is maintained for a few minutes at a temperature some degrees under its point of fusion , the glass assumes a crystalline structure without losing its transparency .
Notwithstanding this change , the low diffusibility of the salt is preserved , with other characters of a colloid .
Water in the form of ice has already been represented as a similar intermediate form , both colloid and crystalline , and in the first character adhesive and capable of reunion or " regelation .
" It is unnecessary to return here to the fact of the ready pectization of liquid silicic acid by alkaline salts , including some of very sparing solubility , such as carbonate of lime , beyond stating that the presence of carbonate of lime in water was observed to be incompatible with the coexistence of soluble silicic acid , till the proportion of the latter was reduced to nearly 1 in 10,000 water .
Certain liquid substances differ from the salts in exercising little or no pectizing influence upon liquid silicic acid .
But , on the other hand , none of the liquids now referred to appear to conduce to the preservation of the fluidity of the colloid , at least not more than the addition of water would do .
Among these inactive diluents of silicic acid are found hydrochloric , nitric , acetic , and tartaric acids , syrup of sugar , glycerine , and alcohol .
But all the liquid substances named , and many others , appear to possess an important relation to silicic acid , of a very different nature from the pectizing action of salts .
They are capable of displacing the combined water of the silicic acid hydrate , whether that hydrate is in the liquid or gelatinous condition , and give new substitution-products .
A liquid compound of alcohol and silicic acid is obtained by adding alcohol to aqueous silicic acid , and then employing proper means to withdraw the water from the mixture .
For that purpose the mixture contained in a cup may be placed over dry carbonate of potash or quicklime , within the receiver of an air-pump .
Or a dialyzing bag of parchment-paper contailling the mixed alcohol and silicic acid may be suspended in a jar of alcohol : the water diffuses away , leaving in the bag a liquid composed of alcohol and silicic acid oilly .
A point to be attended to is , that the silicic acid should never be allowed to form more than 1 per cent. of the alcoholic solution , otherwise it may gelatinize during the experiment .
If I may be allowed to distinguish the liquid and gelatinous hydrates of silicic acid by the irregularly formed terms of hydrosol and hydrogel of silicic acid , the two corresponding alcoholic bodies now introduced may be named the alcosol and alcogel of silicic acid .
The alcosol of silicic acid , containing 1 per cent. of the latter , is a colourless liquid , not precipitated by water or salts , nor by contact with iiisoluable powders , probably from the small proportion of silicic acid present in solution .
It may be boiled and evaporated without change , but is gelatinized by a slight concentration .
The alcohol is retained less strongly in the alcosol of silicic acid than water is in the hydrosol , but with the same varying force , a small portion of the alcohol being held so strongly as to char when the resulting jelly is rapidly distilled at a high temperature .
Not a trace of silicic ether is found in any compound of this class .
The jelly burns readily in the air , leaving the whole silicic acid in the form of a white ash .
The alcogel , or solid compound , is readily prepared by placing masses of gelatinous silicic acid , containing 8 or 10 per cent. of the dry acid , in absolute alcohol , and changing the latter repeatedly till the water of the hydrogel is fully replaced by alcohol .
The alcogel is generally slightly opalescent , and is similar in aspect to the hydrogel , preserving very nearly its original bulk .
The following is the composition of an alcogel carefully prepared from a hydrogel which contained 9 35 per cent. of silicic acid : Alcohol. .
8813 Water. .
023 Silicic acid ... 1164 100 00 Placed in water , the alcogel is gradually decomposed-alcohol diffusing out and ; water entering instead , so that a liydrogel is reproduced .
F-urther , the alcogel may be made the starting-point in the formation of a great variety of other substitution jellies of analogous constitution , the only condition required appearing to be that the niew liquid and alcohol should be inlteriniscible , that is , interdiffusible bodies .
Compounds of ether , benzole , and bisulphide of carbon have thus been produced .
Again , from etheroyel another series of silicic acid jellies may be derived , contailling fluids soluLble in ether , such as the fixed oils .
The preparation of the glycerine compound of silicic acid is facilitated by the comparative fixity of that liquid .
When hydrated silicic acid is first steeped in glvcerine , an(I thien boiled in the same liquid , water distils over , without any change in the appearanice of the jelly , except that when formerly opalescent it becomes now entirely colourless , and ceases to be visible when covered by the liquid .
But a portion of the silicic acid is .
dissolved , and a glycerosol is produced at the saime time as the glycerine jelly .
A glycerogel prepare(l from a hydrate containing 93.5 per cent. of silicic acid , was founid by a combustion analysis to be composed of Glycerine. .
8744 Water. .
378 Silicic acid. .
895 100 17 The glycerogel has somuewhat less bulk than the original hydrogel .
Whena glycerine jelly is distilled by heat , it does not fiuse , but the whole of the glycerine comes over , with a slight amount of decomposition towards the end of the process .
The conmpouncl of suLlphuric acid , sulphagel , is also interesting from the facility of its formation , and the complete manner in which the water of the original hydrogel is removed .
A mass of hydrated silicic acid may be preserved unbroken if it is first placed in sulphuric acid diluted with two or three volumnes of water , and them transferred gradually to stronger acids , till at last it is placed in concentrated oil of vitriol .
The sulphagel sinks in the latter fluid , and may be distilled with an excess of it for hours without losing its transparency or gelatinous character .
It is always somewhat less in bulk than the primary hydrogel , but not more , to the eye , than one-fifth or onie-sixth part of the original volume .
This sulphagel is transparent and colourless .
When a sulphagel is heated strongly in an open vessel , the last portions of the motnohydrated sulphuric acid in combination are found to require a higher temperature for their expulsion than the boiling-point of the acid .
The whole silicie acid remains behind , forming a white , opaque , porous mass , like pumice .
A sulphagel placed in water is soon decomposed , and the original hydrogel reproduced .
No permanent compound of sulphuric and silicie acids , of the nature of a salt , appears to be formed in any eircumstan-ces .
A sulphagel placed in alcohol gives ultimnately a pure alcogel .
Similar jellies of silicie acid may readily be formed with the monohydrates of nitric , acetic , and formic acids , and are all perfectly transparent .
the production of the compounds of silicie acid now described indicates the possession of a wider range of affinity by a colloid than could well be anticipated .
The organic colloids are no doubt inivested with similar wide powers of combination , which may become of interest to the physiologist .
the capacity of a mass of gelatinous silicie acid to assume alcohol , or even oleine , in the place of water of combination , without disintegration or alteration of form , may perhaps afford a clue to the penetration of the albuminous matter of memnbrane by fatty and other insoluble bodies , which seems to occur in the digestion of food .
Still more remarkable and suggestive are the fluid compounds of silicie acid .
The fluid alcohol-compound favours the possibility of the existence of a compound of the colloid albumen with oleine , soluble also and capable of circulating with the blood .
The feebleniess of the force which holds together two substances belonging to different physical classes , one being a colloid and the other a crystalloid , is a subject deserving notice .
When such a compound is placed in a fluid , the superior diffusive energy of the crystalloid may cause its separation from , the colloid .
Thus , of hydrated silicie acid , the combined water ( a crystalloid ) leaves the acid ( a colloid ) to diffuse into alcohol ; and if the alcohol be repeatedly changed , the enitire water is thus removed , alcohol ( another crystalloid ) at the same time taking the place of water in combination with the silicic acid .
The liquid in excess ( here the alcohol ) gains entire possession of the silicic acid .
The process is reversed if an alcogel be placed in a considerable volume of water .
Then alcohol separates from combination , in consequence of the opportunity it possesses to diffuse into water ; and water , which is now the liquid present in excess , recovers possession of the silicic acid .
Such chalnges illustrate the predomilnating influence of mass .
Even the compotnds of silicic acid with alkalies yield to the decomposing force of diffusion .
The compound of silicic acid with 1 or 2 per cent. of soda is a colloidal solution , and , when placed in a dialyzer over water in vacuo to exclude carbonic acid , suffers gradual decomposition .
The soda diffuses off slowly in the caustic state , and gives the usual brown oxide of silver when tested with the nitrate of that base .
The pectization of liquid silicic acid and many other liquid colloids is effected by contact with minute quantities of salts in a way which is not '0VL .
XIII , 2 c understood .
On the other hand , the gelatinous acid may again be liquefied and have its energy restored by contact with a very moderate amount of alkali .
The latter change is gradual , 1 part of caustic soda , dissolved ir 10,000 water , liquefying 200 parts of silicic acid ( estimated dry ) in 60 minutes at 1000 C. Gelatinous stannic acid also is easily liquefied by a small proportion of alkali , even at the ordinary temperature .
The alkali , too , after liquefying the gelatinous colloid , may be separated again from it by diffusioni into water upon a dialyzer .
The solution of these colloids , in such circumstanees , may be looked upon as analogous to the solution of insoluble organic colloids witnessed in animal digestion , with the difference that the solvent fluid here is not acid but alkaline .
Liquid silicic acid may be represented as the " 1 peptone " of gelatinous silicic acid ; and the liquefaction of the latter by a trace of alkali may be spoken of as the peptization of the jelly .
The pure jellies of alumina , peroxide of iron , and titanic acid , prepared by dialysis , are assimilated more closely to albumen , being peptized by minute quantities of hydrochloric acid .
Liquid Stannic and Metastannic Acids.-Liquid stannic acid is prepared by dialyzing the bichloride of tin with an addition of alkali , or by dialyzing the stannate of soda with an addition of hydrochloric acid .
In both cases a jelly is first formed on the dialyzer ; but , as the salts diffuse away , the jelly is again peptized by the small proportion of free alkali remaining : the alkali itself may be removed by continued diffusion , a drop or two of the tincture of iodine facilitating the separation .
The liquid stannic acid is converted on heating it into liquid metastannic acid .
Both liquid acids are remarkable for the facility with which they are pectized by a minute addition of hydrochloric acid , as well as by salts .
Liquid Titanic Acid is prepared by dissolving gelatinous titanic acid in a small quantity of hydrochloric acid , without heat , and placing the liquid upon a dialyzer for several days .
The liqtuid must not contain more than 1 per cent. of titanic acid , otherwise it spontaneously gelatinizes , but it appears more stable when dilute .
Both titanic and the two stannic acids afford the same classes of compounds with alcohol &amp;c. as are obtained with silicic acid .
Liquid Tungstic Alcid.-TThe obscurity which has so long hung over tungstic acid is removed by a dialytic examination .
It is in fact a remarkable colloid , of which the pectous form alone has hitherto been -known .
Liquid tungstic acid is prepared by adding dilute hydrochloric acid earefully to a5 per cent. solution of tungstate of soda , in sufficient proportion to neutralize the alkali , and then placing the resulting liquid on a dialyser .
In about three days the acid is founid pure , with the loss of about -20 per cent. , the -salts having diffused entirely away .
It is remarkable that the purified acid is not pectized by acids or salts even at the boiling temperature .
Evaporated to dryness , it forms vitreous scales , like gum or gelatin , which sometimes adhere so stronigly to the surface of the evaporating dish as to detach portions of it .
It may be heated to 200 ?
C. without losing its solubility or passing into the pectous state , but at a temperature near redness it undergoes a molecular change , losing at the same time 2A42 per cent. of water .
When water is added to unchanged tungstic acid , it becomes pasty and adhesive like gum ; and it forms a liquid with about one-fourth its weight of water , which is so dense as to float glass .
The solutioni effervesces with carbonate of soda , and tungstic acid is evidently associated with silicic and molybdic acids .
The taste of tungstic acid dissolved in water is not metallic or acid , but rather bitter and astringent .
Solutions of tungstic acid containing 5 , 20 , 50 , 66'5 , and 79-8 per cent. of dry acid , possess the following densities at 19 ?
, 10475 , 12168 , 1l8001 , 2 396 , and 3-243 .
Evaporated in vacuo liquid tungstic acid is colourless , but becomes green in air from the deoxidating action of organic -matter .
Liquid silicic acid is protected from pectizing when mixed with tungstic acid , a circumstance probably connected with the formation of the double compounds of these acids which M. Marignac has lately described .
Molybdic Acid has hitherto beenl known ( like tungstic acid ) only in the insoluble form .
Crystallized molybdate of soda dissolved in water is decomposed by the gradual addition of hydrocbloric acid in excess without any immediate precipitation .
The acid liquid thrown upon a dialyzer may gelatinize after a few hours , but again liquefies spontaneously , when the salts diffuse away .
After a diffusion of three days , about 60 per cent. of the molybdic acid remains behind in a pure condition- .
The solution of pure molybdic acid is yellow , astringent to the taste , acid to test-paper , and possesses much stability .
The acid may be dried at 100 ?
, and then heated to 200 ?
without losing its solubility .
Soluble molybdic acid has the same gummy aspect as soluble tungstic acid , and deliquesces slightly when exposed to damp air .
Both acids lose their colloidality whenl digested with soda for a short time , and give a variety of crystallizable salts .

