XXIII .
On the comparative Influence of Male and Female Parents on their Offspring .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F. R. S. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. HB P. R.S. Read June s2 , 1809 .
MY DEAR SIR , I HAVE been engaged , during many years , in experiments on fruit-trees , of which the object has been to discover the best means of forming new varieties , that may be found better calculated for the climate of Britain than those at present cultivated .
In this inquiry my efforts have been always most successful , when I propagated from the males of one variety and the females of another ; and I was enabled , by the same means , to ascertain more accurately , than had previously been done , the comparative influence of the male and female parent on the character of the offspring .
The analogy that subsists between plants and animals , in almost every thing which respects generation , induced me also to attend very minutely to similar experiments in which I engaged on some species of animals ; and , as the repetition of such experiments would necessarily require a very considerable space of time , and as the results seem to lead to conclusions that may be of public utility , I have thought the following account sufficiently interesting to induce me to address it to you .
LINNMUS conceived , that the character of the male parent predominated in the exterior parts both of plants and animals and the same opinions have been generally entertained by more modern naturalists .
But the Swedish philosopher appears to have been ' misled , by the striking predominance of the character-of the male parent in male animals , and to have drawn his conclusions somewhat too generally : for I have observed that seedling plants , when propagated from male and female parents of distinct characters and permanent habits , generally , though with some few exceptions , inherit much more of character of the female , than of the male parent , and the same remark is applicable , in some respects , to the animal world , as I sha:ll point out in the succeeding narrative .
My experiments were made on .
many different species of fruit-trees ; but most extensively , and under the most advantageous circumstances , on the apple-tree ; and as the results were all in unison with each other , it will be necessary to trouble you only with an account of some of ' the experiments which were made on that species of fruit-tree .
The apple , or crab of England , and of Siberia , however dissimilar in habit and character , appear to constitute a single species only ; in which much variation has been effected by the influence of climate on successive generations : for the two varieties readily bred together , and the offspring , whether raised from the seeds of the Siberian , or British variety , were prolific to a most exuberant extent , But there was a very considerable degree of dissimilarity in the appearance of the ofispring ; and , the leaves , and general habits of each , presented an obvious prevalence of the character of the female parent .
The buds of those plants , which had sprung from the seeds of the cultivated apple , did not unfold quite so early in the spring , ; and , their fruits generally exceeded , very considerably , in size those which were produced by the trees which derived their existence from the seeds of the Siberian crab .
There was also a prevalence of the character of the female parent in the form of the fruit ; but the same degree of prevalence did not extend to the quality and flavour of the fruit ; for the richest apple that I have ever seen , and which afforded expressed juice of much higher specific gravity than any other , sprang from a seed of yellow Siberian crab .
The prevalence of the character of the female parent in the preceding cases , may possibly be suspected to have arisen from some error , or neglect of accuracy in making the experiments ; but I do not conceive that any such errors could have existed ; for the trees of each variety were trained to walls , where they blossomed much before any others of the same species , and the stamina were always carefully extracted , whilst immature , from every blossom , which I intended to afford seeds .
The remaining blossoms of the trees were also totally destroyed , and no other blossoms , except those from which the pollen was taken , were ever unfolded in the neighbourhood , in the season when the experiments were made ; and I have also invariably declined to draw any conclusion from the appearance of a plant , in which I could not certainly distinguish some portion of the features and character of the supposed male parent .
It is perhaps also proper to state , that the predominance of the character of the female parent , could scarcely have arisen from any defective action of the pollen ; for , except in cases where superfoetation took place , I have invariably found the effect of a very large , or a very small quantity of pollen , to be invaariably the same , in its influence on the offspring ; and in the greater part of the experiments , from which I have drawn the preceding conclusions , more than ten times as much pollen was deposited on the stigmata , as could have been deposited in unmutilated blossoms by the ordinary means employed by nature .
In all attempts to discriminate the different influence of the male and female parent on the offspring of animals many difficulties present : themselves , owing to the intermixtures which have been made of the different breeds of domesticated animals of every species , and the consequent absence of all hereditary permanency in the character of each variety .
For under these circumstances , the offspring will be very frequently found to show little resemblance either to its male or female parent , either in form , or stature , or colour .
It will therefore be necessary , before I enter on the subject of viviparous animals , to observe that when I apply the terms large and small .
to the male or female parent , I extend the meaning of those terms to the parentage , from which the male and female descend , andnot to the size of the individual only , which becomes the immediate parent of the offspring .
Mr. CLINE has observed , in a communication to the Board , of Agriculture , that if the male and female parent differ considerably in size , the dimensions of the foetus , at the birth , will be regulated much more by the size of the female than of the male parent ; and , if the meaning of the terms large and small be extended to the varieties , as well as to the individuals , his remark is perfectly just .
But experience compels me wholly to reject the inference that he has drawn respecting the advantages of propagating from large , in preference to snmall females , at'tiire ' ha given to the offspring of many antimals ( those of the sheep , the cow , and the mare , afford familiar examples ) the power , ; at an early age , to accompany their parents in flight ; nd the legs of such animals are very nearly of the same length , at the birth , as whenthey have attained their perfect growth .
I When the female parent is large , and the foetus consequently so , the offspring will be large at its birth , in proportion to the b'ulk ?
it will tlItimately attain , and its legs will thence be long comparatively with the ' depth of the chestand shoullders : .
't 'Whenir , on the contrary , the female i small , and the foetus so , at the birth , the length of the legs of the young atnimal wxl.l be short comparatively with the depth of its chest and shoulders ; and 'an a ndimal in the latter form will be greatly preferable , ; either for the purposes of labour , or of food to mankind .
I ' have seen this difference in the influence of the male and female parent , on the offspring , very strikingly exemplified , in the result of an attempt to obtain very arge muesfrom te ma es ndhe mareThe largest females , that could be procured , were selected , and the forms of the offspring , at the birth , were perfectly consistent with the theory of Mr. CLINE ; they were remarkably large : and I observed , that the length of their legs , when they were only a few days ot1^ very nearly equalled that of the legs of their female parents .
I examinaedthe same animals when five years old , and in the depth of their chests and shoulders , they very little exceeded their male parent ; and they were consequently of little or no value ; whilst other mules , which were obtained from.the same male parent ( a Spanish ass ) , but from mares of small stature , were perfectly well proportioned .
I have..never seen the little mule , which is propagated from the female ass and the horse , nor even a delineation , or description of its form ; but I do not entertain any doubt that its chest and shoulders are excessively deep and strong , comparatively with the length of its legs , and that , on account of this peculiarity in its form , it has been so frequently shown on the Continent , under the name of a jumart , as the pretended off .
spring of the mare and the bull .
In opposing the theory advanced by Mr. CLINE , it is not by any means my intention to enter the lists with him , as a physiologist ; but , as a farmer and breeder of animals of different species , I have probably had many advantages , which he has not possessed ; and my conclusions have been drawn from very extensive , and , I believe , accurate observation .
There is another respect in which the , powers of the female appear to be prevalent in their influence on the offspring , and that is relative to its sex .
In several species of domesticated , or cultivated animal ( I believe in all ) , particular females are found to produce a very large majority , and sometimes all their offspring of the same sex ; and I have proved repeatedly , that , by dividing a herd of thirty cows into three equal parts , I could calculate , with confidence , upon a large majority of females from one part , of males from another , and upon nearly an equal number of males and females from the remainder .
I frequently endeavoured to change these habits by changing the male ; but always without success ; and I have in some instances observed the offspring of one sex , though obtained from different males , to exceed those of the other , in the proportion of five or six , and even seven to one .
When , on the contrary , I have attended to the numerous offspring of a single bull , or ram , or horse , I have never seea any considerable difference in the number of offspring of either sex .
I am therefore disposed to believe that the sex of the offSpring is given by the female parent ; and the probability of this seems obvious in fishes , and several other species of animals which breed in water ; and though the evidence afforded by the facts adduced is not by any means of sufficient weight to decide the question , it probably much exceeds all that can be placed in the opposite scale .
In oviparous animals , I have had reason to think the influence of the female parent quite as great , as amongst the viviparous tribes , though my observations have been more limited , and less conclusive .
In iviiparous animals , the size of the fetus is affected by the influence of the male parent , and , in some instances , not inconsiderably ; but the size and form of the eggs of birds do not appear to be in any degree changed or modified , by the influence of the male ; and therefore the size of the offspring , at the birth , must be regulated wholly by the female parent ; and this circumstance permanently affects the form and character of the offspring .
The eggs of birds , and those of fishes and insects ( if such can properly be called eggs ) , appear to resemble the seeds of plants , in having their forms and bulk wholly regulated by the female parent ; but nevertheless their formation appears to depend on very different laws .
For the eggs , both of birds and of fishes and insects , attain their perfect size in total independence of the male , and the cicatricula , the vitellus , and the chalazae have appeared ( I believe ) to the most accurate observers , to be as well organised in the unimpregnated , as in the impregnated egg : in the seed , on the contrary , every thing relative to its internal organisation appears dependent on the male parent .
SPALLANZANI has , however , stated , that many plants produced well organised seeds , and even seeds which vegetated perfectly , under circumstances in which it is not easy to conceive how the pollen of the male plant or flower could have been present .
But the Italian naturalist appears to have blundered most egregiously in his experiment ; or ( which I conceive to be more probable ) he became the dupe of the refined malice of his countrymen ; for , I repeated his experiments under very favourable circum- .
stances , and with the closest attention , but I failed to obtain a single seed .
The gourd alone produced apparently perfect fruit , and the seed-coats acquired their natural size and form ; and in this respect the growth of its seeds appeared to be , like that of eggs , wholly independent of the influence of the male .
But the seed-coats of the gourd were perfectly empty , and I could not discover , at any period of their growth , the slightest vestige either of cotyledons , or plumule , nor of any thing that appeared to correspond with internal organisation of a seed of the same plant , under different circumstances .
SPALLANZANI has not , I believe , mentioned the species of gourd upon which he made his experiments : the common , or orange gourd of our gardens , was the subject of mine .
In comparing the mode of the formation and growth of eggs with the observations I had previously made on the growth of seeds , I have been favoured with the very able assistance of Mr. CARLISLE , for which I have on this , as on many other occasions , to acknowledge much obligation .
I am , my Dear Sir , with great respect , sincerely yours , THOMAS AND .
KNIGHT .
Downton , May 2o , i8o : .

