II .
" Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis .
" By THOMAs GRAHAM , Esq. , F.R.S. , Master of the Mint .
Received May 8 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) The unequal diffusibility of different substances in water appears to present means of separation not unlike those long derived from unequal volatility .
For as regards diffusion , there exists a " volatile " and also a " fixed " class of substances ; and these distinctions appear to correspond with differences in molecular constitution of a fundamental nature .
Much value is attached to diffusion , as affording the means of bringing out clearly , and subjecting to numerical expression , the distinctive properties of what appear to be two great divisions of chemical substances .
The first , or difusive class of substances , are marked by their tendency to crystallize , either alone or in combination with water .
When in a state of solution they are held by the solvent with a certain force , so as to effect the volatility of water by their presence .
The solution is generally free from viscosity , and is always sapid .
Their reactions are energetic and quickly effected .
This is the class of crystalloids .
The other class , of low diffusibility , may be named colloids , as they appear to be typified by animal gelatine .
They have little if any tendency to crystallize , and they affect a vitreous structure .
The planes of the crystal with its hardness and brittleness are replaced in the colloid by rounded outlines with more or less softness and toughness of texture .
Water of crystallization is represented by water of gelatination .
Colloids are held in solution by a feeble power , and have little effect on the volatility of the solvent .
They are also precipitated from their solution by the addition of crystalloids .
The solution of colloids has always a certain degree of viscosity or gumminess , when concentrated .
They appear to be insipid or wholly tasteless , unless when they undergo decomposition upon the palate and give rise to sapid crystalloids .
Their solid hydrates are gelatinous bodies .
They are united to water with a force of low intensity ; and such is the character of the combinations in general between a colloid and a crystalloid , even although the latter may be a powerful reagent in its own class , such as an acid or an alkali .
In their chemical reactions , the crystalloidal appears the energetic form , and the colloidal the inert form of matter .
The combining equivalent of the colloid appears always to be high , and it has a heavy molecule .
Among the colloids rank hydrated silicic acid , and a number of soluble hydrated metallic peroxides , of which little has hitherto been known ; also starch , the vegetable gums and dextrin , caramlel , tannin , albumen , and vegetable and animal extractive matters .
The peculiar structure and chemical indifference of colloids appear to adapt them for the animal organization , of which they become the plastic elements .
Although the two classes are widely separated in their properties , a complete parallelism appears to hold between them .
Their existence in nature appears to call for a corresponding division of chemistry into a crystalloid and a colloid department .
Although chemically inert in the ordinary sense , colloids possess a comparative activity of their own , arising out of their physical properties .
While the rigidity of the crystalline structure shuts out external impressions , the softness of the gelatinous colloid partakes of fluidity , and enables the colloid to become a medium for liquid diffusion , like water itself .
The same penetrability appears to take the form of a capacity for cementation in such colloids as can exist at a high temperature .
IH-ence a wide sensibility on the part of colloids to external agents .
Another eminently characteristic quality of colloids , is their mutability .
Their existence is a continued metastasis .
A colloid may be compared in this respect to water while existing liquid at a temperature below its usual freezing-point , or to a supersaturated saline solution .
The solution of hydrated silicic acid , for instance , is easily obtained in a state of purity , but cannot be preserved .
It may remain fluid for days or weeks in a sealed tube , but is sure to gelatinize at last .
Nor does the change of this colloid appear to stop at that point .
For the mineral forms of silicic acid , deposited from water , such as flint , are found to have passed , during the geological ages of their existence , from the vitreous or colloidal into the crystalline condition ( H. Rose ) .
The colloidal is in fact a dynamical state of matter ; the crystalloidal being the statical condition .
The colloid possesses ENERGIA .
It may be looked upon as the probable primary source of the force appearing in the phenomena of vitality , as living matter without form .
To the gradual manner also in which colloidal changes take place ( for they always demand time as an element ) , may the chronic nature and periodicity of vital phenomena be ultimately referred .
For the separation of unequally diffusive crystalloids from each other , jar-diffusion was had recourse to .
The mixed solution was conveyed by means of a pipette to the bottom of a column of water contained in a cylindrical glass jar .
A kind of cohobation takes place , a portion of the most diffusive substance rising and separating from the less diffusive substances , more and more completely , as it ascends .
The separation of a crystalloid from a colloid is more properly effected by a combination of diffusion with the action of a septum composed of an insoluble colloidal material .
Animal membrane will serve for the latter purpose , or a film of gelatinous starch , hydrated gelatin itself , albumen or animal mucus .
But by much the most effective septum used was paper , as it is metamorphosed by sulphuric acid ( Gain ) .
It is now supplied by Messrs. De la Rue , and has become familiar under the name of " vegetable parchment " or " parchment-paper .
" From sheet gutta percha a flat hoop is formed , eight or ten inches in diameter by three inches in depth , and one side is covered by a disc of parchment-paper , so as to form a vessel like a sieve .
A mixed solution , which may be supposed to contain sugar and gum , is placed upon the septum to a depth of half an inch , and the instrument then floated upon a considerable volume of water contained in a basin .
Three-fourths of the sugar diffuses out in twenty-four hours , and so free from gum as to be scarcely affected by subacetate of lead , and to crystallize on the evaporation of the external water by the heat of a water-bath .
The unequal action of the septum , which causes the separation described , appears to depend upon this:-The crystalloid sugar is capable of taking water from the hydrated colloidal septum , and thus obtains a medium for diffusion ; but the colloid gum has little or no power to separate the combined water of the same septum , and does not therefore open the door for its escape by diffusion , as the sugar does .
This separating action of the colloidal septum is spoken of as dialysis .
Dialysis was applied to the preparation of various colloids .
The mixed solution obtained by pouring silicate of soda into water acidulated with hydrochloric acid , was placed upon a parchment-paper dialyser and allowed to diffuse into water , the latter being occasionally changed .
After the lapse of five days seven-eighths of the original silicic acid was found to remain liquid upon the septum , and to be so free from hydrochloric acid and chloride of sodium as not to give a precipitate with acid nitrate of silver .
The true hydrated alumina , and also Mr. Crum 's metalumina , were obtained soluble by dialysing solutions of these oxides in the chloride and acetate of the same metal .
So also the hydrated peroxide of iron , in addition to the hydrated metaperoxide of iron of M. Pean de Saint Gills , and the soluble hydrated chromic oxide .
The varieties of prussian blue are obtained soluble by dialysing their solution in oxalate of ammonia , the latter salt diffusing away .
Stannic and titanic acids appear as insoluble gelatinous hydrates .
A solution of gum-arabic ( gummate of lime ) , dialysed after an addition of hydrochloric acid , gave at once the pure gummic acid of Fremy .
Soluble albumen is obtained in a state of purity by dialysing that substance with an addition of acetic acid .
Caramel of sugar , purified by repeated precipitation by alcohol and afterwards by dialysis , contains more carbon than any of the caramelic bodies of Gelis ; it forms a tremulous jelly when concentrated , and appears decidedly colloidal .
Caramel , like all other colloids , has a soluble and an insoluble modification .
The latter has its solubility restored by the action of alkali , followed by that of acetic acid and subsequent dialysis .
Dialysis proves highly useful in separating arsenious acid and metallic poisons from organic fluids .
Defibrinated blood , milk , and other organic fluids charged with a few milligrammes of arsenious acid , and placed upon the dialyser , were found to impart the greater proportion of the arsenious acid to the external water in the course of twenty-four hours .
The diffusate was so free from organic matter , that the metal could be readily precipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen , and the quantity weighed .
Ice at or near its melting-point appears to be a colloidal substance , and exhibits a resemblance to a firm jelly in elasticity , the tendency to rend , and to redintegrate on contact .
The consideration of the properties of gelatinous colloids appears to show that osmose is principally an ffair of the dehydration of the gelatinous septuma under influences having a catalytic character , and that the phenomenon is independent of diffusion .
The colloidal septum is capable of hydrating itself to a higher degree in contact with pure water than in contact with alkaline solution .
Colloidal septa , swollen in consequence of contact with dilute acid or alkali , appear to acquire increased sensibility to osmose , in consequence of their unusually high degree of hydration .

