II .
The Bakerian Lecture .
On the Theory of Light and Colours .
By Thomas Young , M. D. F. R. S. Profssor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Read November 12 , i80o .
ALTHOUGH the invention of plausible hypotheses , independent of any connection with experimental observations , can be of very little use in the promotion of natural knowledge ; yet the discovery of simple and uniform principles , by which a great number of apparently heterogeneous phenomena are reduced to coherent and universal laws , must ever be allowed to be of considerable importance towards the improvement of the human intellect .
The object of the present dissertation is not so much to propose any opinions which are absolutely new , as to refer some theories , which have been already advanced , to their original inventors , to support them by additional evidence , and to apply them to a great number of diversified facts , which have hitherto been buried in obscurity .
Nor is it absolutely necessary in this instance to produce a single new experiment ; for of experiments there is already an ample store , which are so much the more unexceptionable , as they must have been conducted without the least partiality for the system by which they will be explained ; yet some facts , hitherto unobserved , will be brought forwards , in order to show the perfect agreement of that system with the multifarious phenomena of nature .
The optical observations of NEWTON are yet unrivalled ; and , excepting some casual inaccuracies , they only rise in our estimation , as we compare them with later attempts to improve on them .
A further consideration of the colours of thin plates , as they are described in the second book of NEWTON'S optics , has converted that prepossession which I before entertained for the undulatory system of light , into a very strong conviction of its truth and sufficiency ; a conviction which has been since most strikingly confirmed , by an analysis of the colours of striated substances .
The phenomena of thin plates are indeed so singular , that their-general complexion is not without great difficulty reconcileable to any theory , however complicated , that has hitherto been applied to them ; and some of the principal circumstances have never been explained by the most gratuitous assumptions ; but it will appear , that the minutest particulars of these phenomena , are not only perfectly consistent with the theory which will now be detailed , but that they are all the necessary consequences of that theory , without any auxiliary suppositions ; and this by inferences so simple , that they become particular corollaries , which scarcely require a distinct enumeration .
A more extensive examination of NEWTON 's various writings has shown me , that he was in reality the first that suggested such a theory as I shall endeavour to maintain ; that his own opinions varied less from this theory than is now almost universally supposed ; and that a variety of arguments have been advanced , as if to confute him , which may be found nearly in a similar form in his own works ; and this by no less a mathematician than LEONARD EULER , whose system of light , as far as it is worthy of notice , either was , or might have been , 13 wholly borrowed from NEWTON , HOOKE , HUYGENS , and MALEBRANCHE .
Those who are attached , as they may be with the greatest justice , to every doctrine which is stamped with the NEWTONIAN approbation , will probably be disposed to bestow on these considerations so much the more of their attention , as they appear to coincide more nearly with NEWTON'S own opinions .
For this reason , after having briefly stated each particular position of my theory , I shall collect , from NEWTON'S various writings , such passages as seem to be the most favourable to its admission ; and , although I shall quote some papers which may be thought to have been partly retracted at the publication of the optics , yet I shall borrow nothing from them that can be supposed to militate against his maturer judgment .
HYPOTHESIS I. A luminiferous Ether pervades the Universe , rare and elastic in a high degree .
Passagesfrom NEWTON .
" The hypothesis certainly has a much greater affinity with " his own , " that is , Dr. HOOKE'S , " hypothesis , than he seems to be aware of ; the vibrations of the ether being as useful and " necessary in this , as in his .
" ( Phil. Trans. Vol. VII .
p , 5087Abr .
Vol. I. p. 145 .
Nov. 1672 .
) " To proceed to the hypothesis : first , it is to be supposed 4 therein , that there is an ethereal medium , much of the same " s constitution with air , but far rarer , subtler , and more strongly " elastic.--It is not to be supposed , that this medium is one uniform matter , but compounded , partly of the main phieg~ mwatic body of ether , partly of other various ethereal spirits , much after the manner that air is compounded of the phleg " matic body of air , intermixed with various vapours and " exhalations : for the electric and magnetic effluvia , and gravi tating principle , seem to argue such variety .
" ( BIRCH : Hist. of R. S. Vol. III .
p. 249 .
Dec. 1675 .
) Is not the heat ( of the warm room ) conveyed through the " vacuum by the vibrations of a much subtiler medium than air ?
" -And is not this medium the same with that medium by which light is refracted and reflected , and by whose vibrations light " communicates heat to bodies , and is put into fits of easy re"flection , and easy transmission ?
And do not the vibrations of " this medium in hot bodies , contribute to the intenseness and s duration of their heat ?
And do not hot bodies communicate " their heat to contiguous cold ones , by the vibrations of this me " dium propagated from them into the cold ones ?
And is not this " medium exceedingly more rare and subtle than the air , and " exceedingly more elastic and active ?
And doth it not readily " pervade all bodies ?
And is it not , by its elastic force , expanded " through all the heavens ?
-May not planets and comets , and " all gross bodies , perform their motions in this ethereal me"dium ?
-And may not its resistance be so small , as to be " inconsiderable ?
For instance , if this ether ( for so I will call " it ) should be supposed 700,000 times more elastic thanour " ' air , and above 700,000 times more rare , its resistance would " be about 600 , ooo00000 times less than that of water .
And ' so small a resistance would scarce make any sensible alteration in the motions of the planets , in ten thousand years .
" If any one would ask how a medium can be so rare , let him " tell me-how an electric body can by friction emit an exhalation so rare and subtle , and yet so potent ?
-And how the effluvia of a magnet can pass through a plate of glass , without resistance , and yet turn a magnetic needle beyond the glass ?
" ( Optics , Qu .
18 , 22 .
) HYPOTHESIS II .
Undulations are excited in this Ether whenever a Body becomes luminous .
Scbolium .
I use the word undulation , in preference to vibration , because vibration is generally understood as implying a motion which is continued alternately backwards and forwards , by a combination of the momentum of the body with an accelerating force , and which is naturally more or less permanent ; but an undulation is supposed to consist in a vibratory motion , transmitted successively through different parts of a medium , without any tendency in each particle to continue its motion , except in consequence of the transmission of succeeding undu-lations , from a distinct vibrating body ; as , in the air , the vibrations of a chord produce the undulations constituting sound .
Passages from NEWTON .
Were I to assume an hypothesis , it should be this , if prot " pounded more generally , so as not to determine what light is , " further than that it is something or other capable of exciting ' vibrations in the ether ; for thus it will become so general and , comprehensive of other hypotheses , as to leave little room for new ones to be invented .
" ( BIRCH .
VolII .
III .
249 .
Dec. i675 .
) " In the second place , it is to be supposed , that the ether is a &lt; vibrating medium like air , only the vibrations far more swift ( and minute ; those of air , made by a man 's ordinary voice , " succeeding one another at more than half a foot , or a foot distance ; but those of ether at a less distance than the hun " dred thousandth part of an inch .
And , as in air the vibra " tions are some larger than others , but yet all equally swift , " c ( for in a ring of bells the sound of every tone is heard at two " or three miles distance , in the same order that the bells are " struck , ) so , I suppose , the ethereal vibrations differ in big " ness , but not in swiftness .
Now , these vibrations , beside their " use in reflection and refraction , may be supposed the chief " means by which the parts of fermenting or putrefying sub " stances , fluid liquors , or melted , burning , or other hot bodies , " continue in motion .
" ( BIRCH Vol. III .
p. 2S1 .
Dec. 1675 .
) c( When a ray of light falls upon the surface of any pellucid " body , and is there refracted or reflected , may not waves of " vibrations , or tremors , be thereby excited in the refracting or " reflecting medium ?
--And are not these vibrations propagated from the point of incidence to great distances ?
And do they ( not overtake the rays of light , and by overtaking them suc( cessively , do not they put them into the fits of easy reflection " c and easy transmission described above ?
" ( Optics .
Qu .
17 .
) c " Light is in fits of easy reflection and easy transmission , " before its incidence on transparent bodies .
And probably it is " put into such fits at its first emission from luminous bodies , ( and continues in them during all its progress .
" ( Optics .
Second Book .
Part III .
Prop. 13 .
) HYPOTHESIS III .
The Sensation of different Colours depends on the differentfrequency of Vibrations , excited by Light in the Retina .
Passages from NEWTON .
" c The objector 's hypothesis , as to the fundamental part of it , " is not against me .
That fundamental supposition is , that the " parts of bodies , when briskly agitated , do excite vibrations in ( the ether , which are propagated every way from those bodies " , in straight lines , and cause a sensation of light by beating ' and dashing against the bottom of the eye , something after ' the manner that vibrations in the air cause a sensation of " sound by beating against the organs of hearing , Now , the " s most free and natural application of this hypothesis to the " solution of phenomena , I take to be this : that the agitated parts of bodies , according to their several sizes , figures , and motions , do excite vibrations in the ether of various depths " or bignesses , which , being promiscuously propagated through " that medium to our eyes , effect in us a sensation of light of a( white colour ; but if by any means those of unequal bignesses " be separated from one another , the largest beget a sensation of a red colour , the least or shortest of a deep violet , and " the intermediate ones of intermediate colours ; much after s " the manner that bodies , according to their several sizes , " shapes , and motions , excite vibrations in the air of various " c bignesses , which , according to those bignesses , make several c " tones in sound : that the largest vibrations are best able to overcome the resistance of a refracting superficies , and so " break through it with least refraction ; whence the vibrations i8 v of several bignesses , that is , the rays of several colours , which " are blended together in light , must be parted from one an " other by refraction , and so cause the phenomena of prisms , " and other refracting substances ; and that it depends on the c thickness of a thin transparent plate or bubble , whether a " vibration shall be reflected at its further superficies , or trans " mitted ; so that , according to the number of vibrations , interceding the two superficies , they may be reflected or transmitted c for many successive thicknesses .
And , since the vibrations " which make blue and violet , are supposed shorter than those " which make red and yellow , they must be reflected at a less " thickness of the plate : which is sufficient to explicate all the " ordinary phenomena of those plates or bubbles , and also of c all natural bodies , whose parts are like so many fragments of such plates .
These seem to be the most plain , genuine , and " C necessary conditions of this hypothesis .
And they agree so " justly with my theory , that if the animadversor think fit to " c apply them , he need not , on that account , apprehend a divorce cc from it .
But yet , how he will defend it from other difficulties , " I know not .
" ( Phil. Trans. Vol. VII .
p. 5088 .
Abr .
Vol. I , p. 145 .
Nov. 1672 .
) " To explain colours , I suppose , that as bodies of various " sizes , densities , or sensations , do by percussion or other c action excite sounds of various tones , and consequently vi " brations in the air of different bigness ; so the rays of light , " by impinging on the stiff refracting superficies , excite vibrations in the ether , of various bigness ; the biggest , strongest , " ' or most potent rays , the largest vibrations ; and others shorter , " according to their bigness , strength , or power : and therefore the ends of the capillamenta of the optic nerve , which pave - " or face the retina , being such refracting superficies , when the " rays impinge upon them , they must there excite these vibra( tions , which vibrations ( like those of sound in a trunk or " trumpet ) will run along the aqueous pores or crystalline pith " of the capillamenta , through the optic nerves , into the senso " rium ; -and there , I suppose , aff-ct the sense with various colours , according to their bigness and mixture ; the biggest with the strongest colours , reds and yellows ; the least with " the weakest , blues and violets ; the middle with green ; and a " confusion of all with white , much after the manner that , in the sense of hearing , nature makes use of aerial vibrations of " several bignesses , to generate sounds of divers tones ; for the 4 " analogy of nature is to be observed .
" ( BIRCH Vol , III .
p. 262 .
Dec. 1675 .
) Considering the lastingness of the motions excited in the bottom of the eye by light , are they not of a vibrating nature ?
( -Do not the most refrangible rays excite the shortest vibrations , the least refrangible the largest ?
May not the harmony " and discord of colours arise from the proportions of the vibra"tions propagated through the fibres of the optic nerve into " the brain , as the harmony and discord of sounds arise from " the proportions of the vibrations of the air ?
" ( Optics , Qu .
16 , 13 , 14 .
) Scbolium .
Since , for the reason here assigned by NEWTON , it is probable that the motion of the retina is rather of a vibratory than of an undulatory nature , the frequency of the vibrations must be dependent on the constitution of this substance .
Now , as it is almost impossible to conceive each sensitive point of the retina to contain an infinite number of particles , each capable of vibrating in perfect unison with every possible undulation , it becomes necessary to suppose the number limited , for instance , to the three principal colours , red , yellow , and blue , of which the undulations are related in magnitude nearly as the numbers 8 , 7 , and 6 ; and that each of the particles is capable of being put in motion less or more forcibly , by undulations differing less or more from a perfect unison ; for instance , the undulations of green light being nearly in the ratio of 6I , will affect equally the particles in unison with yellow and blue , and produce the same effect as a light composed of those two species : and each sensitive filament of the nerve may consist of three portions , one for each principal colour .
'Allowing this statement , it appears that any attempt to produce a musical effect from colours , must be unsuccessful , or at least that nothing more than a very simple melody could be imitated by them ; for the period , which in fact constitutes the harmony of any concord , being a multiple of the periods of the single undulatigns , would in this case be wholly without the limits of sympathy of the retina , and would lose its effect ; in the same manner as the harmony of a third or a fourth is destroyed , by depressing it to the lowest notes of the audible scale .
In hearing , there seems to be no permanent vibration of any part of the organ .
HYPOTHESIS IV .
All material Bodies have an Attraction for the ethereal Medium , by means of which it is accumulated within their Substance , and for a small Distance around them , in a State of greater Density , but not of greater Elasticity .
It has been shown , that the three former hypotheses , which may be called essential , are literally parts of the more complicated NEWTONIAN system .
This fourth hypothesis differs perhaps in some degree from any that have been proposed by former authors , and is diametrically opposite to that of NEWTON ; but , both being in themselves equally probable , the opposition is merely accidental ; and it is only to be inquired which is the best capable of explaining the phenomena .
Other suppositions might perhaps be substituted for this , and therefore I do not consider it as fundamental , yet it appears to be the simplest and best of any that have occurred to me .
PROPOSITION I. All Impulses are propagated in a homogeneous elastic Medium with an equable Velocity .
Every experiment relative to sound coincides with the observation already quoted from NEWTON , that all undulations are propagated through the air with equal velocity ; and this is further confirmed by calculations .
( LAGRANGE .
Misc .
Taur .
Vol. I. p. 91 .
Also , much more concisely , in my Syllabus of a course of Lectures on Natural and Experimental Philosophy , about to be published .
Article 289 .
) If the impulse be so great as materially to disturb the density of the medium , it will be no longer homogeneous ; but , as far as concerns our senses , the quantity of motion may be considered as infinitely small .
It is surprising that EULER , although aware of the matter of fact , should still have maintained , that the more frequent undulations are more rapidly propagated .
( Theor .
mus .
and Conject .
phys .
) It is possible , that the actual velocity of the particles of the luminiferous ether may bear a much less proportion to the velocity of the undulations than in sound ; for light may be excited by the motion of a body moving at the rate of only one mile in the time that light moves a hundred millions .
, Scholium i. It has been demonstrated , that in different mediums the velocity varies in the subduplicate ratio of the force directly , and of the density inversely .
( Misc .
Taur .
Vol. 1 , p. 91 .
YoUNG 's Syllabus .
Art .
294 .
) Scholium 2 .
It is obvious , from the phenomena of elastic bodies and of sounds , that the undulations may cross each other " without interruption .
But there is no necessity that the variouscolours of white light should intermix their undulations ; for , supposing the vibrations of the retina to continue but a five hundredth of a. second after their excitement , a million undulations ; of each of a million colours may arrive in distinct succession within this interval of time , and produce the same sensible effect , as if all the colours arrived , precisely at the same instant .
PROPOSITION If .
An Undulation conceived to originate from the Vibration of a single Particle , must expand through a homogeneous Medium in a spherical Form , but with different quantities of Motion in , different Parts .
For , since every impulse , considered as positive or negative ; is propagated with a constant velocity , each part of the undulation must in equal times have past through equal distances from the vibrating point .
And , supposing the vibrating particle , in the course of its motion , to proceed forwards to a small distance in a given direction , the principal strength of the undulation will naturally be straight before it ; behind it , the motion will be equal , in a contrary direction ; and , at right angles to the line of vibration , the undulation will be evanescent .
Now , in order that such an undulation may continue its progress to any considerable distance , there must be in each part of it , a tendency to preserve its own motion in a right line from the centre ; for , if the excess of force at any part were communicated to the neighbouring particles , there can be no reason why it should not very soon be equalised throughout , or , in other words , become wholly extinct , since the motions in contrary directions would naturally destroy each other .
The origin of sound from the vibration of a chord is evidently of this nature ; on the contrary , in a circular wave of water , every part is at the same instant either elevated or depressed .
It may be difficult to show mathematically , the mode in which this inequality of force is preserved ; but the inference from the matter of fact , appears to be unavoidable ; and , while the science of hydrodynamics is so imperfect that we cannot even solve the simple problem of the time required to empty a vessel by a given aperture , it cannot be expected that we should be able to account perfectly for so complicated a series of phenomena , as those of elastic fluids .
The theory of HUYGENS indeed explains the circumstance in a manner tolerably satisfactory : he supposes every particle of the medium to propagate a distinct undulation in all directions ; and that the general effect is only perceptible where a portion of each undulation conspires in direction at the same instant ; and it is easy to show that such a general undulation would in all cases proceed rectilinearly , with proportionate force ; but , upon this supposition , it seems to follow , that a greater quantity of force must be lost by the divergence of the partial undulations , than appears to be consistent with the propagation of the effect to any considerable distance .
Yet it is obvious , that some such limitation of the motion must naturally be expected to take place ; for , if the intensity of the motion of any particular part , instead of continuing to be propagated straight forwards , were supposed to affect the intensity of a neighbouring part of the undulation , an 24 impulse must then have travelled from an internal to an external circle in an oblique direction , in the same time as in the direction of the radius , and consequently with a greater velocity ; against the first proposition .
In the case of water , the velocity is by no means so rigidly limited as in that of an elastic medium .
Yet it is not necessary to suppose , nor is it indeed probable , that there is absolutely not the least lateral communication of the force of the undulation , but that , in highly elastic mediums , this communication is almost insensible .
In the air , if a chord be perfectly insulated , so as to , propagate exactly such vibrations as have been described , they will in fact be much less forcible than if the chord be placed in the neighbourhood of a sounding board , and probably in some measure because of this lateral communication of motions of an opposite tendency .
And the different intensity of different parts of the same circular undulation may be observed , by holding a common tuning fork at arm 's length , while sounding , and turning it , from a plane directed to the ear , into a position perpendicular to that plane .
PROPOSITION II^. .
A Portion of a spherical Undulation , admitted through an Aperture into a quiescent Medium , will proceed to befurtherpropagated rectilinearly inconcentric Superficies , terminated laterally by weak and irregular Portions of newly diverging Undulations .
At the instant of admission , the circumference of each of the undulations may be supposed to generate a partial undulation , filling up the nascent angle between the radii and ' the surface terminating the medium ; but no sensible addition will be made to its strength by a divergence of motion from any other parts of the undulation , for want of a coincidence in time , as has already been explained with respect to the various force of a spherical undulation .
If indeed the aperture bear but a small proportion to the breadth of an undulation , the newly generated undulation may nearly absorb the whole force of the portion admitted ; and this is the case considered by NEWTON in the Principia .
But no experiment can be made under these circumstances with light , on account of the minuteness of its undulations , and the interference of inflection ; and yet some faint radiations do actually diverge beyond any probable limits of inflection , rendering the margin of the aperture distinctly visible in all directions ; these are attributed by NEWTON to some unknown cause , distinct from inflection ; ( Optics , Third Book , Obs. 5 .
) and they fully answer the description of this proposition .
Let the concentric lines in Fig. i. ( Plate I. ) represent the contemporaneous situation of similar parts of a number of successive undulations diverging from the point A ; they will also represent the successive situations of each individual undulation : let the force of each undulation be represented by the breadth of the line , and let the cone of light ABC be admitted through the aperture BC ; then the principal undulations will proceed in a rectilinear direction towards GH , and the faint radiations on each side will diverge from B and C as centres , without receiving any additional force from any intermediate point D of the undulation , on account of the inequality of the lines DE and DF .
But , if we allow some little lateral divergence from the extremities of the undulations , it must diminish their force , without adding materially to that of the dissipated light ; and their Q6 termination , instead of the right line BG , will assume the form CH ; since the loss of force must be more considerable near to C than at greater distances .
This line corresponds with the boundary of the shadow in NEWTON'S first observation , Fig. 1 ; and it is much more probable that such a dissipation of light was the cause of the increase of the shadow in that observation , than that it was owing to the action of the inflecting atmosphere , which must have extended a thirtieth of an inch each way in order to produce it ; especially when it is considered that the shadow was not diminished by surrounding the hair with a denser medium than air , which must in all probability have weakened and contracted its inflecting atmosphere .
In other circumstances , the lateral divergence might appear to increase , instead of diminishing , the breadth of the beam .
As the subject of this proposition has always been esteemed the most difficult part of the undulatory system , it will be proper to examine here the objections which NEWTON has grounded upon it .
To me , the fundamental supposition itself seems impossible ; " namely , that the waves or vibrations of any fluid can , like the " rays of light , be propagated in straight lines , without a continual and very extravagant spreading and bending every " way into the quiescent medium , where they are terminated " ( by it .
I mistake , if there be not both experiment and demon " stration to the contrary .
" ( Phil. Trans. VII .
5089 , Abr .
IL 146 .
Nov. 1672 .
) " Motus omnis per fluidum propagatus divergit a recto tra " mite in spatia immota .
" " Quoniam medium ibi , " in the middle of an undulation E 9 admitted , densius est , quam in spatiis hinc inde , dilatabit sese " tam versus spatia utrinque sita , quam versus pulsuum rariora intervalla ; eoque pacto-pulsus eadem fere celeritate sese in " medii parts quiescentes hinc inde relaxare debent ; -ideoque spatium totum occupabunt.--Hoc experimur in sonis .
" ( Princip .
Lib. II .
Prop. 42 .
" Are not all hypotheses erroneous , in which light is supposed " to consist in pression or motion , propagated through a fluid " medium ?
--If it consisted in pression or motion , propagated " 4either in an instant , or in time , it would bend into the shadow .
" For pression or motion cannot be propagated in a fluid in right lines beyond an obstacle which stops part of the motion , " but will bend and spread every way into the quiescent medium " which lies beyond the obstacle.-The waves on the surface of " stagnating water , passing by the sides of a broad obstacle " which stops part of them , bend afterwards , and dilate themf selves gradually into the quiet water behind the obstacle .
" The waves , pulses , or vibrations of the air , wherein sounds " consist , bend manifestly , though not so much as the waves c " of water .
For a bell or a cannon may be heard beyond a " ' hill , which intercepts the sight of the sounding body ; and , " sounds are propagated as readily through crooked pipes as " straight ones .
But light is never known to follow crooked " ' passages , nor to bend into the shadow .
For the fixed stars , " by the interposition of any of the planets , cease to be seen .
" And so do the parts of the sun , by the interposition of the " moon , Mercury , or Venus .
The rays which pass very near to the edges of any body , are bent a little by the action of the " body ; -but this bending is not towards but from the shadow , 28 " and is performed only in the passage of theray by the body , " and at a very small distance from it .
So soon as the ray is " past the body , it goes right on .
" ( Optics , Qu .
28 .
) Novfthe proposition quoted from the Principia does not directly contradict this proposition ; for it does not assert that such a motion must diverge equally in all directions ; neither can it with truth be maintained , that the parts of an elastic medium communicating any motion , must propagate that motion equally in all directions .
( Phil. Trans. for 1800 .
p. 109-112 .
) All that can be inferred by reasoning is , that the marginal parts of the undulation must be somewhat weakened , and that there must be a faint divergence in every direction ; but whether either of these effects might be of sufficient magnitude to be sensible , could not have been inferred from argument , if the affirmative had not been rendered probable by experiment .
As to the-analogy with other fluids , the most natural inference from it is this : " c The waves of the air , wherein sounds consist , bend manifestly , though not so much as the waves of water ; " water being an inelastic , and air a moderately elastic medium ; but ether being most highly elastic , its waves bend very far less than those of the air , and therefore almost imperceptibly .
Sounds are propagated through crooked passages , because their sides are capable of reflecting sound , just as light would be propagated through a bent tube , if perfectly polished within .
The light of a star is by far too weak to produce , by its faint divergence , any visible illumination of the margin of a planet eclipsing it ; and the interception of the sun 's light by the moon , is as foreign to the question , as the statement of inflection is inaccurate .
To the argument adduced by HUYGENS , in favour of the S9 rectilinear propagation of undulations , NEWTON has made no reply ; perhaps because of his own misconception of the nature of the motions of elastic mediums , as dependent on a peculiar law of vibration , which has been corrected by later mathematicians .
( Phil. Trans. for 1800 , p. 116 .
) On the whole , it is presumed , that this proposition may be safely admitted , as perfectly con.sistent with analogy and with experiment .
PROPOSITION IV .
When an Undulation arrives at a Surface which is the Limit of Mediums of different Densities , a partial Reflection takes place , proportionate-in Force to the Difference of the Densities .
This may be illustrated , if not demonstrated , by the analogy of elastic bodies of different sizes .
" If a smaller elastic body ?
" strikes against a larger one , it is well known that the smaller " is reflected more or less powerfully , according tco the difference of their magnitudes : thus , there is always a reflection " when the rays of light pass from a rarer to a denser stratum " of ether ; and frequently an echo when a sound strikes " against a cloud .
A greater body striking a smaller one , pro-* - ?
pels it , without losing all its motion : thus , the particles of ac denser stratum of ether , do not impart the whole of their " motion to a rarer , but , in their effort to proceed , they are " recalled by the attraction of the refracting substance with fequal force ; and thus a reflection is always secondarily produced , when the rays of light pass from a denser to a rarer stratum .
" ( Phil. Trans. for 1800 .
p. 127 .
) But it is not absolutely necessary to suppose an attraction in the latter case , since the effort to proceed would be propagated backwards without it , and the undulation would be reversed , a rarefaction so returning in place of a condensation ; and this will perhaps be found most consistent with the phenomena .
PROPOSITION V. When an Undulation is transmitted through a Surface terminating different Mediums , it proceeds in such a Direction , that the Sines of the Angles of Incidence and Refraction are in the constant Ratio of the Velocity of Propagation in the two Mediums .
( BARROW , Lect. Opt .
II .
p. 4 .
HUYGENS , de la Lum .
cap. 3 .
EULER , Conj .
Phys. Phil. Trans. for 1800 , p. 128 .
YOUNG'S Syllabus .
Art .
38 .
) Corollary i. The same demonstrations prove the equality of the angles of reflection and incidence .
Corollary 2 .
It appears from experiments on the refraction of condensed air , that the ratio of the difference of the sines varies simply as the density .
Hence it follows , by Schol .
I. Prop. I. that the excess of the density of the ethereal mediumn is in the duplicate ratio of the density of the air ; each particle cooperating with its neighbours in attracting a greater portion of it .
PROPOSITION VI .
When an Undulation falls on the Surface of a rarer Medium , so obliquely that it cannot be regularly refracted , it is totally reflected , at an Angle equal to that of its Incidence .
( Phil. Trans. for 1800 , p. 128 .
) Corollary .
This phenomenon tends to prove the gradual increase and diminution of density at the surface terminating two mediums , as supposed in HYPOTHESIS IV ; although HUYGENS has attempted to explain it somewhat differently .
PROPOSITION VII .
If equidistant Undulations be supposed to pass through a Medium , of which the Parts are susceptible of permanent Vibrations somewhat slower than the Undulations , their Velocity will be somewhat lessened by this vibratory Tendency ; and , in the same Medium , the more , as the Undulations are more frequent .
For , as often as the state of the undulation requires a change in the actual motion of the particle which transmits it , that change will be retarded by the propensity of the particle to continue its motion somewhat longer : and this retardation will be more frequent , and more considerable , as the difference between the periods of the undulation and of the natural vibration is greater .
Corollary .
It was long an established opinion , that heat consists in vibrations of the particles of bodies , and is capable of being transmitted by undulations through an apparent vacuum .
( NEWT .
Opt .
Qu .
18 .
) This opinion has been of late very much abandoned .
Count RUMFORD , Professor PICTET , and Mr. DAVY , are almost the only authors who have appeared to favour it ; but it seems to have been rejected without any good grounds , and will probably very soon recover its popularity .
Let us suppose that these vibrations are less frequent than those of light ; _all bodies therefore are liable to permanent vibrations slower than those of light ; and indeed almost all are liable to luminous vibrations , either when in a state of ignition , or in the circumstances of solar phosphori ; but much less easily , and in a much less degree , than to the vibrations of heat .
It will follow from these suppositions , that the more frequent luminous undulations will be more retarded than the less frequent ; and consequently , that blue light will be more refrangible than red , and radiant heat least of all ; a consequence which coincides exactly with the highly interesting experiments of Dr. HERSCHEL .
( Phil. Trans. for 18oo .
p. 284 .
) It may also be easily conceived , that the actual existence of a state of slower vibration may tend still more to retard the more frequent undulations , and that the refractive power of solid bodies may be sensibly increased by an increase of temperature , as it actually appears to have been in EULER'S experiments .
( Acad. de Berlin .
1762 .
p. 328 .
) Scholium .
If , notwithstanding , this proposition should appear to be insufficiently demonstrated , it must be allowed to be at least equally explanatory of the phenomena with any thing that can be advanced on the other side , from the doctrine of projectiles ; since a supposed accelerating force must act in some other proportion than that of the bulk of the particles ; and , if we call this an elective attraction , it is only veiling under a chemical term , our incapacity of assigning a mechanical cause .
Mr. SHORT , when he found by observation the equality of the velocity of light of all colours , felt the objection so forcibly , that he immediately drew an inference from it in favour of the undulatory system .
It is assumed in the proposition , that when light is dispersed by refraction , the corpuscles of the refracting substance are in a state of actual alternate motion , and contribute to its transmission ; but it must be confessed , that we cannot at present form a very decided and accurate conception of the forces concerned in maintaining these corpuscular vibrations .
PROPOSITION VIII .
1When two Undulations , from different Origins , coincide either perfectly or very nearly in Direction , their joint effect is a Combination of the Motions belonging to each .
Since every particle of the medium is affected by each undulation , wherever the directions coincide , the undulations can proceed no otherwise than by uniting their motions , so that the joint motion may be the sum or difference of the separate motions , accordingly as similar or dissimilar parts of the undulations are coincident .
I have , on a former occasion , insisted at large on the application of this principle to harmonics ; ( Phil. Trans. for 1800 .
p. 130 .
) and it will appear to be of still more extensive utility in explaining the phenomena of colours .
The undulations which are now to becompared are those of equal frequency .
When the two series coincide exactly in point of time , it is obvious that the united velocity of the particular motions must be greatest , and , in effect at least , double the separate velocities ; and also , that it must ' be smallest , and if the undulations are of equal strength , totally destroyed , when the time of the greatest direct motion belonging to one undulation coincides with that of the greatest retrograde motion of the other .
In intermediate states , the joint undulation will be of intermediate strength ; but by what laws this intermediate strength must vary , cannot be determined without further data .
It is well known that a similar cause produces in sound , that effect which is called a beat ; two series of undulations of nearly equal magnitude cooperating and destroying each other alternately , as they coincide more or less perfectly in the times of performing their respective motions .
COROLLARY I. Of the Colours of striated Surfaces .
BOYLE appears to have been the first that observed the colours of scratches on polished surfaces .
NEWTON has not noticed them .
MAZEAS and Mr. BROUGHAM have made some experiments on the subject , yet without deriving any satisfactory conclusion .
But all the varieties of these colours are very easily deduced from this proposition .
Let there be in a given plane two reflecting points very near each other , and let the plane be so situated that the reflected image of a luminous object seen in it may appear to coincide with the points ; then it is obvious that the length of the incident and reflected ray , taken together , is equal with respect to both points , considering them as capable of reflecting in all directions .
Let one of the points be now depressed below the given plane ; then the whole path of the light reflected from it , will be lengthened by a line which is to the depression of the point as twice the cosine of incidence to the radius .
Fig. 2 .
If , therefore , equal undulations of given dimensions be reflected from two points , situated near enough to appear to the eye but as one , wherever this line is equal to half the breadth of a whole undulation , the reflection from the depressed point will so interfere with the reflection from the fixed point , that the progressive motion of the one will coincide with the retrograde motion of the other , and they will both be destroyed ; but , when this line is equal to the whole breadth of an undulation , the effect will be doubled ; and when to a breadth and a half , again destroyed ; and thus for a considerable number of alternations ; and , if the reflected undulations be of different kinds , they will F 3f5 be variously affected , according to their proportions to the various length of the line which is the difference between the lengths of their two paths , and which may be denominated the interval of retardation .
In order that the effect may be the more perceptible , a number of pairs of points must be united into two parallel lines ; and , if several such pairs of lines be placed near each other , they will facilitate the observation .
If one of the lines be made to revolve round the other as an axis , the depression below the given plane will be as the sine of the inclination ; and , while the eye and luminous object remain fixed , the difference of the length of the paths will vary as this sine .
The best subjects for the experiment are Mr. COVENTRY'S exquisite micrometers ; such of them as consist of parallel lines drawn on glass , at the distance of one five hundredth of an inch , are the most convenient .
Each of these lines appears under a microscope to consist of two or more finer lines , exactly parallel , and at the distance of somewhat more than a twentieth of that of the adjacent .
lines .
I placed one of these so as to reflect the sun 's light at an angle of 45 ?
, and fixed it in such a manner , that while it revolved round one of the lines as an axis , I could measure its angular motion ; and I found , that the brightest red colour occurred at the inclinations io0 ?
, 2 32 , and 45 ?
; of which the sines are as the numbers i , 2 , 3 , and 4 .
At all other angles also , when the sun 's light was reflected from the surface , the colour vanished with the inclination , and was equal at equal inclinations on either side .
This experiment affords a very strong confirmation of the theory .
It is impossible to deduce any explanation of it from any hypothesis hitherto advanced ; and I believe it would be 36 difficult to invent any other that would account for it .
There is a striking analogy between this separation of colours , and the production of a musical note by successive echoes from equidistant iron palisades ; which I have found to correspond pretty accurately with the known velocity of sound , and the distances of the surfaces .
It is not improbable that the colours of the integuments of some insects , and of some other natural bodies , exhibiting in different lights the most beautiful versatility , may be found to be of this description , and not to be derived from thin plates .
In somecases , a single scratch or furrow may produce similar effects , by the reflection of its opposite edges .
COROLLARY II .
Of the Colours of thin Plates .
When a beam of light falls on two parallel refracting surfaces , the partial reflections coincide perfectly in direction ; .
and , in this case , the interval of retardation , taken between the surfaces , is to their distance as twice the cosine of the angle of refraction to the radius .
For , in Fig. 3 , drawing AB and CD perpendicular to the rays , the times of passing through BC and AD will be equal , and DE will be half the interval of retardation ; but DE is to CE as the sine of DCE to the radius .
Hence , .
that DE may be constant , or that the same colour may be reflected , the thickness CE must vary as the secant of the angle of refraction CED : which agrees exactly with NEWTON'S , experiments ; for the correction is perfectly inconsiderable .
Let the medium between the surfaces be rarer than the surrounding mediums ; then the impulse reflected at the second , surface , meeting a subsequent undulation at the first , will render the particles of the rarer medium capable of wholly stopping .
the motion of the denser , and destroying the reflection , ( PROP .
iv .
) while they themselves with be more strongly propelled than if they had been at rest ; and the transmitted light will be increased .
So that the colours by reflection will be destroyed , and those by transmission rendered more vivid , when the double thicknesses , or intervals of retardation , are any multiples of the whole breadths of the undulations ; and , at intermediate thicknesses the effects will be reversed ; according to the NEWTONIAN observations .
If the same proportions be found to hold good with respect to thin plates of a denser medium , which is indeed not improbable , it will be necessary to adopt the corrected demonstration of PROP .
iv .
but , at any rate , if a thin plate be interposed between a rarer and a denser medium , the colours by reflection and transmission may be expected to change places .
From NEWTON'S measures of the thicknesses reflecting the different colours , the breadth and duration of their respective undulations may be very accurately determined ; although it is not improbable , that when the glasses approach very near , the atmosphere of ether may produce some little irregularity .
The whole visible spectrum appears to be comprised within the ratio of three to five , or a major sixth in music ; and the undulations of red , yellow , and blue , to be related in magnitude as the numbers 8 , 7 , and 6 ; so that the interval from red to blue is a fourth .
The absolute frequency expressed in numbers is too great to be distinctly conceived , but it may be better imagined by a comparison with sound .
If a chord sounding the tenor c , could be continually bisected 40 times , and should then vibrate , it would afford a yellow green light : this being 41 40 41 denoted by c , the extreme red would be a , and the blue d. $8 The absolute length and frequency of each vibration is expressed in the table ; supposing light to travel in 8minutes 500,000,000000 feet .
Length of an Number of Colours .
-Undulation Undulations Number of ; Undulations n in parts of an in n Ich in a Second. .
ti In ; h , in Air .
Extreme.oooo266 37640 463millons millions of milli Red.0000256 39180 482 Intermediate.0000oooo246 47o 501 Orange.ooo0024o 41610o 512 Intermediate.oooo35 ; 42510 523 Yellow.000oooo0227 44000 oo 5 Intermediate.0000219 45600 561 ( = 24nearly ) ; Green.00002 11 47460 584 Intermediate.0000203o 49320 607 iBlue.oooog196 51110o 629 Intermediate.0000189 52910 652 'Indigo.0000185 54070 665 Intermediate.oooo18155240 68o Violet.00001ooo 74 57490 707 ; Extreme.oooo167 59750 785 Scholium .
It was not till I had satisfied myself respecting all .
these phenomena , that I found in HOOKE'S Micrographia , a passage which might have led me earlier to a similar conclusion .
It is most evident that the reflection from the under or furs there side of the body , is the principal cause of the production " of these colours .
-Let the ray fall obliquely on the thin " plate , part therefore is reflected back by the first superficies , " -part refracted to the second surface , -whence it is reflected ?
" and refracted again.-So that , after two refractions and one " reflection , there is propagated a kind of fainter ray- , " and , " by reason of the time spent in passing and repassing , -this fainter pulse comes behind the " former reflected " pulse ; so " that hereby , ( the surfaces being so near together that the eye " ' cannot discriminate them from one , ) this confused or duplicated " pulse , whose strongest part precedes , and whose weakest fol " lows , does produce on the retina , the sensation of a yellow .
" If these surfaces are further removed asunder , the weaker " pulse may become coincident with the " reflection of the " second , " or next following pulse , from the first surface , and " lagg behind that also , and be coincident with the third , fourth , fifth , sixth , seventh , or eighth- ; so that , if there be " a thin transparent body , that from the greatest thinness requi " site to produce colours , does by degrees grow to the greatest thickness , the colours shall be so often repeated , as the " weaker pulse does lose paces with its primary or first pulse , and is coincident with a " subsequent " pulse .
And this , as it is coincident , or follows from the first hypothesis I took of " colours , so upon experiment have I found it in multitudes of instances that seem to prove it .
" ( P. 65-67 .
) This was printed about seven years before any of NEWTON'S experiments were made .
We are informed by NEWTON , that HOOKE was afterwards disposed to adopt his " ( suggestion " of the nature of colours ; and yet it does not appear that HOOKE ever applied that improvement to his explanation of these phenomena , or inquired into the necessary consequence of a change of obliquity , upon his original supposition , otherwise he could not but have discovered a striking coincidence with the measures laid down by NEWTON from experiment .
All former attempts to explain the colours of thin plates , have either proceeded on suppositions 40 which , like NEWTON'S , would lead us to expect the greatest irregularities in the direction of the refracted rays ; or , like Mr. MICHELL'S , would require such effects from the change of the angle of incidence , as are contrary to the effects observed ; or they are equally deficient with respect to both these circumstances , and are inconsistent with the most moderate attention .
to the principal phenomena,. .
COROLLARY III .
Of the Colours of thick Plates .
When a beam of light passes through a refracting surface , .
especially if imperfectly polished , a portion of it is irregularly scattered , and makes the surface visible in all directions , but most conspicuously in directions not far distant from that of the light itself : and ; if a reflecting surface be placed parallel to the refracting surface , this scattered light , as well : as the principal beam , will be reflected , and there will also be a new dissipation of light , at the return of the beam through the refracting surface .
These two portions of scattered light will coincide in direction ; and , if the surfaces be of such a form as to collect the similar effects , will exhibit rings of colours .
The interval of retardation is here , the difference between the paths of the principal beam and of the scattered light between the two surfaces ; of course ; wherever the inclination of the scattered light is equal .
to that of the beam , although in different planes , the interval will vanish , and all the undulations will conspire .
At other inclinations , the interval will be the difference of the secants from the secant of the inclination or angle of refraction of the principal beam .
From these causes , all the colours of concave mirrors observed by NEWTON and others are necessary consequences : and it appears that their production , tlough somewhat similar , is by no means , as NEWTON imagined , identical with the production of those of thin plates .
COROLLARY IV .
Of Blackness .
In the three preceding corollaries , we have considered the refracting and reflecting substances as limited by a mathematical surface ; but this is perhaps never physically true .
The ethereal atmospheres may extend on each side the surface as far as the breadth of one or more undulations ; and , if they be supposed to vary equally in density at every part , the partial .
reflections from each of the infinite number of surfaces , where the density changes , will very much interfere with each other , and destroy a considerable portion of the reflected light , so that the substance may become positively black ; and this effect may take place in a greater or less degree , as the density of the ethereal atmosphere varies more or less equably ; and , in some cases , particular undulations being more affected than others , a tinge of colour may be produced .
Accordingly , M. BOUGUER has observed a considerable loss of light , and in some instances a tinge of colour , in total reflections at the surface of a rarer medium .
COROLLARY v. Of Colours by Inflection .
Whatever may be the cause of the inflection of light passing through a small aperture , the light nearest its centre must be the least diverted , and the nearest to its sides the most : another portion of light falling very obliquely on the margin of the aperture , will be copiously reflected in various directions ; some of which will either perfectly or very nearly coincide in direction with the unreflected light , and , having taken a circuitous 42 route , will so interfere with it , as to cause an appearance of colours .
The length of the two tracks will differ the less , as the direction of the reflected light has been less changed by its reflection , that is , in the light passing nearest to the margin ; so that the blues will appear in the light nearest the shadow .
The .
effect will be increased and modified , when the reflected light falls within the influence of the opposite edge , so as to interfere with the light simply inflected by that also .
But , in order to examine the consequences more minutely , it will be convenient to suppose the inflection caused by an ethereal atmosphere , of a density varying as a given power of the distance from a centre , as in the eighth proposition of the last BAKERIAN Lecture .
( Phil. Trans. for 18o0 , p. 83 .
) Putting , r =3 , and x 2r= I have constructed a diagram , ( Fig. 4 , ) which shows , by the two pairs of curves , the relative position of the reflected and unreflected portions of any one undulation at two .
successive times , and also , by shaded lines drawn across , the parts where the intervals of retardation are in arithmetical progression , .
and where similar colours will be exhibited at different distances ; from the inflecting substance .
The result fully agrees with theobservations of NEWTON'S third , book , and with those of later writers .
But I do not consider it as quite certain , until further experiments have been made on the inflecting power of different substances , that Dr. HOOKE'S explanation of inflection , by the tendency of light to diverge , may not have some pretensions to truth , I am sorry to be obliged to recall here the assent which , at first sight , I was induced to give to a supposed improvement of a late author .
( Phil. Trans. for 8oo , p. 128 .
) Scholium .
In the construction of the diagram , it becomes necessary to find the time spent by each ray in its passage .
1 Since the velocity was denoted by xr , on the supposition of a1 projectile , it will be as x7 on the contrary supposition , ( Phil , Trans. for 18o0 , p. 27 .
Scol .
2 .
Prop. I. ) and the fluxion of the 1 distance described being -yy -that of the time will be 'or .
of which the fluent is r - .
, ^v-yy .
X -r %yy._yyl_r y ' Therefore , with the radius x1 ' r , describe a circle concentric with the surfaces of the inflecting atmosphere , then the angle described by the ray during its passage through the atmosphere , will always be to the angle subtended by the line cut off by this circle from the incident ray produced , in the ratio of r to r- ; and the time spent in this passage , will be in the same ratio to the time that would have been spent in describing this intercepted portion with the initial velocity .
For y , being equal 1 to sxT - ' , is the sine of the inclination of the incident ray to the radius , where it meets this circle ; therefore , by the proposition quoted , the angle described is in a given ratio to the angle at the centre , which is the difference of the inclinations .
Making x-1 or radius , the sine , instead ofy , becomes s , and the coy sine s/ --ss , or .
v/ i-y , and , when y= ss , v/ i 'ssi yy y therefore the line intercepted is to the difference of the fluents as r to ri .
( See also YOUNG'S Syllabus , Art .
372 .
) PROPOSITION IX .
Radiant Light consists in Undulations of the luminiferous Ether .
This proposition is the general conclusion from all the preceding ; and it is conceived that they conspire to prove it in as.satisfactory a manner as can possibly be expected from the 44 !
nature of the subject .
It is clearly granted by NEWTON , that there are undulations , yet he denies that they constitute light ; but it is shown in the three first Corollaries of the last Proposition , that all cases of the increase or diminution of light are referable to an increase or diminution of such undulations , and that all the affections to which the undulations would be liable , are distinctly visible in the phenomena of light ; it may therefore be very logically inferred , that the undulations are light .
A few detached remarks will serve to obviate some objections.which may be raised against this theory .
I. NEWTON has advanced the singular refraction of the Iceland crystal , as an argument that the particles of light must be projected corpuscles ; since he thinks it probable that the different sides of these particles must be differently attracted by the crystal , and since HUYGENS has confessed his inability to account in a satisfactory manner for all the'phenomena .
But , contrarily to what might have been expected from NEWTON'S usual accuracy and candour , he has laid down a new law for the refraction , without giving a reason for rejecting that of HUYGENS , which Mr. HAUY has found to be more accurate than NEWTON'S ; and , without attempting to deduce from his own system any explanation of the more universal and striking effects of doubling spars , he has omitted to observe that HUYGENS'S most elegant and ingenious theory perfectly accords with these general effects , in all particulars , and of course derives from them additional pretensions to truth : this he omits , in order to point out a difficulty , for which only a verbal solution can be found in his own theory , and which will probably long remain unexplained by any other .
2 .
Mr. MICIELL has made some experiments , which appear to show that therays of light have an actual momentum , by means of which a motion is produced when they fall on a thin plate of copper delicately suspended .
( PRIESTLEY'S Optics .
) But , taking for granted the exact perpendicularity of the plate , and the absence of any ascending current of air , yet since , in every such experiment , a greater quantity of heat must be communicated to the air at the surface on which the light falls than at the opposite surface , the excess of expansion must necessarily produce an excess of pressure on the first surface , and a very perceptible recession of the plate in the direction of the light .
Mr. BENNET has repeated the experiment , with a much more sensible apparatus , and also in the absence of air ; and very justly infers from its total failure , an argument in favour of the undulatory system of light .
( Phil. Trans. for 1792 , p. 87 .
) For , granting the utmost imaginable subtility of the corpuscles of light , their effects might naturally be expected to bear some proportion to the effects of the much less rapid motions of the electrical fluid , which are so very easily perceptible , even in their weakest states .
3 .
There are some phenomena of the light of solar phosphori , which at first sight might seem to favour the corpuscular system ; for instance , its remaining many months as if in a latent state , and its subsequent re-emission by the action of heat .
But , on further consideration , there is no difficulty in supposing the particles of the phosphori which have been made to vibrate by the action of light , to have this action abruptly suspended by the intervention of cold , whether as contracting the bulk of the substance or otherwise ; and again , after the restraint is removed , to proceed in their motion , as a spring would do which had been held fast for a time in an intermediate stage of its vibration ; nor is it impossible that heat itself may , in some circumstances , become in a similar manner latent .
( NICHoLsoN'S 46 Journal .
Vol. II .
p. 399 .
) But the affections of heat may perhaps hereafter be rendered more intelligible to us ; at present , it seems highly probable that light differs from heat only in the frequency of its undulations or vibrations ; those undulations which are within certain limits , with respect to frequency , being capable of affecting the optic nerve , and constituting light ; and those which are slower , and probably stronger , constituting heat only ; that light and heat occur to us , each in two predicaments , thevibratory or permanent , and the undulatory or transient state ; vibratory light being the minute motion of ignited bodies , or of solar phosphori , and undulatory or radiant light the motion of the ethereal medium excited by these vibrations ; vibratory heat being a motion to which all material substances are liable , and which is more or less permanent ; and undulatory heat that motion of the same ethereal medium , which has been shown by Mr. KING , ( Morsels of Criticism .
1786 .
p. 99 , ) and M. PICTET , ( Essais de Physique .
179o , ) to be as capable of reflection as light , and by Dr. HERSCHEL to be capable of separate refraction .
( Phil. Trans. for 1800 .
p. 284 .
) How much more readily heat is communicated by the free access of colder substances , than either by radiation or by transmission through a quiescent medium , has been shown by the valuable experiments of Count RUMFORD .
It is easy to conceive that some substances , permeable to light , may be unfit for the transmission of heat , in the same manner as particular substances may transmit some kinds of light , while they are opaque with respect to others .
On the whole it appears , that the few optical phenomena which admit of explanation by the corpuscular system , are equally consistent with this theory ; that many others , which have long been known , but never understood , become by these means perfectly intelligible ; and that several new facts are found to be thus only reducible to a perfect analogy with other facts , and to the simple principles of the undulatory system .
It is presumed , that henceforth the second and .
third books of NEWTONT ' Optics will be considered as more fully understood than the first has hitherto been ; but , if it should appear to impartial judges , that additional evidence is wanting for the establishment of the theory , .
it will be easy to enter more minutely into the details of various experiments , and to show the insuperable difficulties attending theNEWTONIAN doctrines , which , without necessity , it would be tedious and invidious to enumerate .
The6 merits of their author in natural philosophy , are great beyond all contest or comparison ; his optical discovery of the composition .
of white light , would alone have immortalisedc his name ; and the very arguments which tend to overthrow his system , give the strongest proofs of the admirable accuracy of his experiments .
Sufficient and decisive as these arguments appear , it cannot be superfluous to seek for further confirmation ; which .
may with considerable confidence be expected , from an experiment very ingeniously suggested by Professor ROBISON , on the refraction of the light returning to us from the opposite margins of Saturn 's ring ; for , on the corpuscular theory , the ring must be considerably distorted when viewed through an achromatic prism : a similar distortion ought also to be observed in the disc of Jupiter ; but , if it be found that an equal deviation is produced in the whole light reflected from these planets , there can scarcely be any remaining hope to explain the affections of light , by a comparisor with the motions of projectiles .
48 IIHII III I C)1 I -It IM I OM~~~~~~~~~ */ ?/ '* ~i ~ft~k/ T 000 ITINV '~ ' IIiiIiiiiIIiii 1 , I ij !
I Ii II i : iI IiIt iiIiI I.p , -4

