XIV .
An Account of some Cases of the Production of Colours , not hitherto described .
By Thomas Young , M. D.D. R. S. F. L. S. Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Read July 1 , 1802 .
WHATEVER opinion may be entertained of the theory of light and colours which I have lately had the honour of submitting to the Royal Society , it must at any rate be allowed that it has given birth to the discovery of a simple and general law , capable of explaining a number of the phenomena of coloured light , which , without this law , would remain insulated and unintelligible .
The law is , that " c wherever two portions of the same light arrive at the eye by different routes , either exactly or " very nearly in the same direction , the light becomes most " intense when the difference of the routes is any multiple of a " certain length , and least intense in the intermediate state of the interfering portions ; and this length is different for light of different colours .
" I have already shown in detail , the sufficiency of this law for explaining all the phenomena described in the second and third books of NEWTON'S Optics , as well as some others not mentioned by NEWTON .
But it is still more satisfactory to observe its conformity to other facts , which constitute new and distinct classes of phenomena , and which could scarcely have agreed so well with any anterior law , if that law had been erroneous or imaginary : these are , the colours of fibres , and the colours of mixed plates .
As I was observing the appearance of the fine parallel lines of light which are seen upon the margin of an object held near the eye , so as to intercept the greater part of the light of a distant luminous object , and which are produced by the fringes caused by the inflection of light already known , I observed that they were sometimes accompanied by coloured fringes , much broader and more distinct ; and I soon found , that these broader fringes were occasioned by the accidental interposition of a hair .
In order to make them more distinct , I employed a horse-hair ; but they were then no longer visible .
With a fibre of wool , on the contrary , they became very large and conspicuous : and , with a single silk-worm 's thread , their magnitude was so much increased , that two or three of them seemed to occupy the whole field of view .
They appeared to extend on each side of the candle , in the same order as the colours of thin plates , seen by transmitted light .
It occurred to me , that their cause must be sought in the interference of two portions of light , one reflected from the fibre , the other bending round its opposite side , and at last coinciding nearly in direction with the former portion ; that , accordingly as both portions deviated more from a rectilinear direction , the difference of the length of their paths would become gradually greater and greater , and would consequently produce the appearances of colour usual in such cases ; that , supposing them to be inflected at right angles , the difference would amount nearly to the diameter of the fibre , and that this difference must consequently be smaller as the fibre became smaller ; and , the number of fringes in a right angle becoming smaller , that their angular distances would consequently become greater , and the whole appearance would be dilated .
It was easy to calculate , that for the light least inflected , X,88 the difference of the paths would be to the diameter of the fibre , very nearly as the deviation of the ray , at any point , from the rectilinear direction , to its distance from the fibre .
I therefore made a rectangular hole in a card , and bent its ends so as to support a hair parallel to the sides of the hole : then , upon applying the eye near the hole , the hair of course appeared dilated by indistinct vision into a surface , of which the breadth was determined by the distance of the hair and the magnitude of the hole , independently of the temporary aperture of the pupil .
When the hair approached so near to the direction of the margin of a candle that the inflected light was sufficiently copious to produce a sensible effect , the fringes began to appear ; and it was easy to estimate the proportion of their breadth to the apparent breadth of the hair , across the image of which they extended .
I found that six of the brightest red fringes , nearly at equal distances , occupied the whole of that image .
The breadth of the .
aperture was -i6 and its distance from the hair 8s of an inch : the diameter of the hair was less than sof an inch ; as nearly as I could ascertain , it was x00 Hence , we have I00 for the deviation of the first red fringe at the distance L ; , and , as 8 : I 0 : : 0 , or 4 for the difference of the routes of the red light where it was most intense .
The measure deduced from NEWTON'S experiments is v3o-92I thought this coincidence , with only an error of oneninth of so minute a quantity , sufficiently perfect to warrant completely the explanation of the phenomenon , and even to render a repetition of the experiment unnecessary ; for there are several circumstances which make it difficult to calculate much more precisely what ought to be the result of the measurement .
When a number of fibres of the same kind , for instance ; a uniform lock of wool , are held near to the eye , we see an appearance of halos surrounding a distant candle ; but their brilliancy , and even their existence , depends on the uniformity of the dimensions of the fibres ; and they are larger as the fibres are smaller .
It is obvious that they are the immediate consequencesof the coincidence of a number of fringes of the same size , which , as the fibres are arranged in all imaginable directions , must necessarily surround the luminous object at equal distances on all sides , and constitute circular fringes .
There can be little doubt that thecoloured atmospherical halos are of the same kind : their appearance must depend on the existence of a number of particles of water , of equal dimensions , and in a proper position ; with respect to the luminary and to the eye .
As there is no natural limit to the magnitude of the spherules of water , we may expect these halos to vary without limit in their diameters ; and , accordingly , Mr. JORDAN has observed that their dimensions are exceedingly various , and has remarked .
that they frequently change during the time of observation .
I first noticed the colours of mixed plates , in looking at a candle through two pieces of plate-glass , with a little moisture between them .
I observed an appearance of fringes resembling the common colouis of thin plates ; and , upon looking for the fringes by reflection , I found that these new fringes were always in the same direction as the other fringes , but many times larger .
By examining the glasses with a magnifier , I perceived that wherever these fringes were visible , the moisture was intermixed with portions of air , producing an appearance similar to dew .
I then supposed that the origin of the colours was the same as $9o that of the colours of halos ; but , on a more minute examination , I found that the magnitude of the portions of air and water was by no means uniform , and that the explanation was therefore inadmissible .
It was , however , easy to fin-d two portions of light sufficient for the production of these fringes ; for , the light transmitted through the water , moving in it with a velocity different from that of the light passing through the interstices filled only with air , the two portions would interfere with each other , and produce effects of colour according to the general law .
The ratio of the velocities in water and in air , is that of 3 to 4 ; the fringes ought therefore to appear where the thickness is 6 times as great as that which corresponds to the same colour in the common case of thin plates ; and , upon making the experiment with a plane glass and a lens slightly convex , I found the sixth dark circle actually of the same diameter as the first in the new fringes .
The colours are also very easily produced , when butter or tallow is substituted for water ; and the rings then become smaller , on account of the greater refractive density of the oils : but , when water is added , so as to fill up the interstices of the oil , the rings are very much enlarged ; for here the difference only of the velocities in water and in oil is to be considered , and this is much smaller than the difference between air and water .
All these circumstances are sufficient to satisfy us with respect to the truth of the explanation ; and it is still more confirmed by the effect of inclining the plates to the direction of the light ; for then , instead of dilating , like the colours of thin plates , these rings contract : and this is the obvious consequence of an increase of the length of the paths of the light , which now traverses both mediums obliquely ; and the effect is every where the same as that of a thicker plate .
$E X 89t It must however be observed , that the colours are not produced in the whole light that is transmitted through the mediums : a small portion only of each pencil , passing through the water contiguous to the edges of the particle , is sufficiently coincident with the light transmitted by the neighbouring portions of air , to produce the necessary interference ; and it is easy to show that , on account of the natural concavity of the surface of each portion of the fluid adhering to the two pieces of glass , a considerable portion of the light which is beginning to pass through the water will be dissipated laterally by reflection at its entrance , and that much of the light passing through the air will be scattered by refraction at the second surface .
For these reasons , the fringes are seen when the plates are not directly interposed between the eye and the luminous object ; and , on account of the absence of foreign light , even more distinctly than when they are in the same right line with that object .
And , if we remove the plates to a considerable distance out of this line , the rings are still visible , and become larger than before ; for here the actual route of the light passing through the air , is longer than that of the light passing more obliquely through the water , and the difference in the times of passage-is lessened .
It is however impossible to be quite confident with respect to the causes of these minute variations , without some means of ascertaining accurately the forms of the dissipating surfaces .
In applying the general law of interference to these colours , as well as to those of thin plates already known , I must confess that it is impossible to avoid another supposition , which is a part of the undulatory theory , that is , that the velocity of light is the greater , the rarer the medium ; and that there is also a condition annexed to the explanation of the colours of thin plates , which involves another part of the same theory , that is , that where one of the portions of light has been reflected at the surface of a rarer medium , it must be supposed to be retarded one half of the appropriate interval , for instance , in the central black spot of a soap-bubble , where the actual lengths of the paths very nearly coincide , but the effect is the same as if one of the portions had been so retarded as to destroy the other .
From considering the nature of this circumstance , I ventured to predict , that if the two reflections were of the same kind , made at the surfaces of a thin plate , of a density intermediate between the densities of the mediums containing it , the effect would be reversed , and the central spot , instead of black , would become white ; and I have now the pleasure of stating , that I have fully verified this prediction , by interposing a drop of oil of sassafras between a prism of flint-glass and a lens of crown glass : the central spot seen by reflected light was white , and surrounded by a dark ring .
It was however necessary to use some force , in order to produce a contact sufficiently intimate ; and the white spot differed , even at last , in the same degree from perfect whiteness , as the black spot usually does from perfect blackness .
The colours of mixed plates suggested to me an idea which appears io lead to an explanation of the dispersion of colours by refraction , more simple and satisfactory than that which I advanced in the last BAKERIAN lecture .
We may suppose that every refractive medium transmits the undulations constituting light in two separate portions , one passing through its ultimate particles , and the other through its pores ; and that these portions re-unite continually , after each successive separation , the one having preceded the other by a very minute but constant interval , depending on the regular arrangement of the particles of a homogeneous medium .
Now , if these two portions were always equal , each point of the undulations resulting from their re-union , would always be found half way between the places of the corresponding point in the separate portions ; but , supposing the preceding portion to be the smaller , the newly combined undulation will be less advanced than if both had been equal , and the difference of its place will depend , not only on the difference of the length of the two routes , which will be constant for all the undulations , but also on the law and magnitude of those undulations ; so that the larger undulations will be somewhat further advanced after each re-union than the smaller ones , and , the same operation recurring at every particle of the medium , the whole progress of the larger undulations will be more rapid than that of the smaller ; hence the deviation , in consequence of the retardation of the motion of light in a denser medium , will of course be greater for the smaller than for the larger undulations .
Assuming the law of the harmonic curve for the motions of the particles , we might without much difficulty reduce this conjecture to a comparison with experiment ; but it would be necessary , in order to warrant our conclusions , to be provided with very accurate measures of the refractive and dispersive powers of various substances , for rays of all descriptions .
Dr. WOLLASTON'S very interesting observations would furnish great assistance in this inquiry , when compared with the separation of colours by thin plates .
I have repeated his experiments on the spectrum with perfect success , and have made some attempts to procure comparative measures from thin plates ; and I have found that , as Sir IsAAc NEWTON has already observed , the blue and violet light is more dispersed by refraction , than in proportion to the difference of the appropriate dimensions deduced from the phenomena of thin plates .
Hence it happens , that when a line of the light proceeding to form an image of the rings of colours of thin plates , is intercepted by a prism , and an actual picture is formed , resembling the scale delineated by NEWTONS from theory , for estimating the colours of particles of givendimensions , the oblique spectrums ; formed by the , different colours of each series , are not straight , but curved , the lateral refraction of the prism ' separating the violet end more widely than the red .
The thickness : corresponding to the extreme-red , the line of yellow , bright green , bright blue , and extreme violet , I found to be inversely as the numbers 27 , 3o , 5 , 40 , and 45 , respectively .
In consequence of Dr. WOLLASTON'S correction of the description of the prismatic spectrum , compared with these observations , it becomes necessary to modify the supposition that I advanced in the last BAKERIAN lecture , respecting the proportions of the sympathetic fibres of the retina ; substituting red , green , and violet , for red , yellow , and blue , and the numbers 7 , 6 , and 5 , for 8 , 7 , andi6 .
The same prismatic analysis of the colours of thin plates , appears to furnish ; a satisfactory explanation of the subdivision of the light of the lower part of a candle : for , in fact , the light transmitted through every part of a thin plate , is divided in a similar manner into distinct portions , increasing in number with the thickness of the plate , until they become too minute to be visible .
At the thickness corresponding to the ninth or tenth portion of red light , the number of portions of different colours is five ; and their proportions , as exhibited by refraction , are nearly the same as in the light of a candle , the violet being the 895 broadest .
We have only to suppose each particle of tallow to be , at its first evaporation , of such dimensions as to produce the same effect as the thin plate of air at this point , where it is about I oo of an inch in thickness , and to reflect , or perhaps rather to transmit , the mixed light produced by the incipient combustion around it , and we shall have a light completely resembling that which Dr. WOLLASTON has observed .
There appears to be also a fine line of strong yellow light , separate from the general spectrum , principally derived from the most superficial combustion at the margin of the flame , and increasing in quantity as the flame ascends .
Similar circumstances might undoubtedly be found in other cases of the production or modification of light ; and experiments upon this subject might tend greatly to establish the NEWTONIAN opinion , that the colours of all natural bodies are similar in their origin to those of thin plates ; an opinion which appears to do the highest honour to the sagacity of its author , and indeed to form a very considerable , step in our advances towards an acquaintance with the intimate constitution and arrangement of material substances .
I have lately had an opportunity of confirming my former observations on the dispersive powers of the eye .
I find that , at the respective distances of 1o and 15 inches , the extreme red and extreme violet rays are similarly refracted , the difference being expressed by a focal length of o3 inches .
Now the interval between red and yellow is about one-fourth of the whole spectrun ; consequently , a focal length of 120 inches expresses a power equivalent to the dispersion of the red and yellow , and this differs but little from 132 , which was the result of the observation already Uescribed .
I do not know that these experimtnts are .
more accurate than the former one .
; but I have repeated them several times under different circumstances , and I have no doubt that the dispersion of coloured light in the human eye is nearly such as I have stated it .
How it happens to be no greater , I cannot at present undertake to explain .
CORRECTION OF A FORMER PAPER .
In the Philosophical Transactions for 800o , P. 146 , line iz , for 83810 , read 84197 ; ---line 15 , for.00oo562 , read.ooIoi0 6 .
In Fig. 3 , ( Plate VII .
) the Eb ( Q ) is too near D ; and the Eb ( Y ) should be above , instead of below it ,

