I. " On the Relation of Hydrogen to Palladium .
" By THOMAS GRAHAMA , F.R.S. , Master of the Mint .
Received November 23 , 1868 .
It has often been maintained on chemical grounds that hydrogen gas is the vapour of a highly volatile metal .
The idea forces itself upon the mind that palladium with its occluded hydrogen is simply an alloy of this volatile metal , in which the volatility of the one element is restrained by its union with the other , and which owes its metallic aspect equally to both constituents .
How far such a view is borne out by the properties of the compound substance in question will appear by the following examination of the properties of what , assuming its metallic character , would have to be named Ilydroyenium .
1 .
Density.-The density of palladium when charged with eight or nine hundred times its volume of hydrogen gas is perceptibly lowered ; but the change cannot be measured accurately by the ordinary method of immersion in water , owing to a continuous evolution of minute hydrogen bubbles which appears to be determined by contact with the liquid .
However , the linear dimensions of the charged palladium are altered so considerably that the difference admits of easy measurement , and furnishes the required density by calculation .
Palladium in the form of wire is readily charged with hydrogen by evolving that gas upon the surface of the metal in a galvanometer containing dilute sulphuric acid as usual * .
The length of the wire before and after a charge is found by stretching it on both occasions by the same moderate weight , such as will not produce permanent distention , over the surface of a flat graduated measure .
The measure was graduated to hundredths of an inch , and by means of a vernier , the divisions could be read to thousandths .
The distance between two fine cross lines marked upon the surface of the wire near each of its extremities was observed .
Expt. 1.-The wire had been drawn from welded palladium , and was hard and elastic .
The diameter of the wire was 0'462 millimetre ; its specific gravity was 12-38 , as determined with care .
The wire was twisted into a loop at each end and the mark made near each loop .
The loops were varnished so as to limit absorption of gas by the wire to the measured length between the two marks .
To straighten the wire , one loop was fixed , and the other connected with a string passing over a pulley and loaded with 1'5 kilogramme , a weight sufficient to straighten the wire without ; occasionirg any undue strain .
The wire was charged with hydrogen by making it the negative electrode of a small Bunsen 's battery consisting of two cells , each of half a litre in capacity .
The positive electrode was a thick platinum wire placed side by side with the palladium wire , and extending the whole length of the latter within a tall jar filled with dilute sulphuric acid .
The palladium wire had , in consequence , hydrogen carried to its surface , for a period of 1hour .
A longer exposure was founrd not to add sensibly to the charge of hydrogen acquired by the wire .
The wire was again measured and the increase in length noted .
Finally the wire , being dried with a cloth , was divided at the marks , and the charged portion heated in a long narrow glass tube kept vacuous by a Sprengel aspirator .
The whole occluded hydrogen was thus collected and measured ; its volume is reduced by calculation to Bar .
760 millims. , and Therm. 0 ?
C. The original length of the palladium wire exposed was 609 144 millims. ( 23'982 inches ) , and its weight 1'6832 grm. The wire received a charge of hydrogen amounting to 936 times its volume , measuring 128 cubic centims. , and therefore weighing 0-01147 grm. When the gas was ultimately expelled , the loss as ascertained by direct weighing was 0'01164 grm. The charged wire measured 618'923 millims. , showing an increase in length of 9'779 millims. ( 0'385 inch ) .
The increase in linear dimensions is from 100 to 101-605 , and in cubic capacity , assuming the expansion to be equal in all directions , from 100 to 104'908 .
Supposing the two metals united without any change of volume , the alloy may therefore be said to be composed of By volume .
Palladium ... ... ... ... 100 or 95-32 Hydrogenium ... ... ... .
4 908 or 4*68 104-908 100 The expansion which the palladium undergoes appears enormous if viewed as a change of bulk in the metal only , due to any conceivable physical force , amounting as it does to sixteen times the dilatation of palladium when heated from 0 ?
to 100 ?
C. The density of the charged wire is reduced , by calculation , from 12'3 to 11'79 .
Again , as 100 is to 4'91 , so the volume of the palladium , 0'1358 cubic centir .
, is to the volume of the hydrogenium , 0'006714 cubic centim. Finally , dividing the weight of the hydrogenium , 0'01147 grin .
, by its volume in the alloy , 0'006714 cubic centim. , we find Density of hydrogenium ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
11708 The density of hydrogenium , then , appears to approach that of magnesium , 1'743 , by this first experiment .
Further , the expulsion of hydrogen from the wire , however caused , is attended with an extraordinary contraction of the latter .
On expelling the hydrogen by a moderate heat , the wire not only receded to its original length , but fell as much below that zero as it had previously risen above it .
The palladium wire first measuring 609'144 millims. , and which increased 9'77 millims. , was ultimately reduced to 599'444 millims. , and contracted 9'7 millims. The wire is permanently shortened .
The density of the pal1869 .
] 213 ladiumn did not increase , but fell slightly at the same time , namely from 12'38 to 12 12 , proving that this contraction of the wire is in length only .
The result is the converse of extension by wire-drawing .
The retraction of the wire is possibly due to an effect of wire-drawing in leaving the particles of metal in a state of unequal tension , a tension which is excessive in the direction of the length of the wire .
The metallic particles would seem to become mobile , and to right themselves in proportion as the hydrogen escapes ; and the wire contracts in length , expanding , as appears by its final density , in other directions at the same time .
A wire so charged with hydrogen , if rubbed with the powder of magnesia ( to make the flame luminous ) , burhs like a waxed thread when ignited in the flame of a lamp .
Expt. 2.-Another portion of the same palladium wire was charged with hydrogen in a similar manner .
The results observed were as follows : Length of palladium wire ... ... ... ... . .
488 976 millims. The same with 8 67 15 volumes ofoccluded gas 495 656 , , Linear elongation ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
668 , Linear elongation on 100 ... ... ... .
1'3663 , , Cubic expansion on 10 ... ... ... ... ... ... 4154 , , Weight of palladium wire ... ... ... ... .
1'0667 grin .
Volume of palladium wire ... ... ... ... ... 008072 cub.centim .
Volume of occluded hydrogen gas ... .
752 , , Weight of same ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0'00684 grn. Volume of hdrogenium ... ... ... ... . .
0003601 cub. centim. From these results is calculated Density of hydrogenium ... ... ... ... 1'898 .
Expt. 3.-The palladium wire was new , and on this occasion was well annealed before being charged with hydrogen .
The wire was exposed at the neg-ative pole for two hours , when it had ceased to elongate .
Length of palladium wire ... ... ... ... 556 185 millims. Saime with 888'303 volumes hydrogen. .
563'652 , , Linear elongatio ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
7'467 , , Linear elongation on 100 ... ... ... ... .
1324 , , Cubic expansion on 100 ... ... . .
4'025 , , Weight of palladium wire ... ... ... ... . .
11675 grm. Volume of palladium wire ... ... ... ... 0-0949 cub. centim. Volume of occluded hydrogen gas 84'3 cub. centims. Weight of same ... ... ... ... ... . .
0'007553 grm. Volume of hydrogenium ... ... ... ... ... 0'003820 cub. centim. These results give by calculation Density of hydrogenium ... ... ... ... .
1977 .
It was necessary to assume in this discussion that the two metals do not 214 [ Jan. 14 , contract nor expand , but remain of their proper volume on uniting .
Dr. Matthiessen has shown that in the formation of alloys generally the metals retain approximately their original densities* .
In the first experiment already described , probably the maximum absorption of gas by wire , amounting to 93.5'67 volumes , is attained .
The palladium may be charged with any smaller proportion of hydrogen by shortening the time of exposure to the gas ( 329 volumes of hydrogen were taken up in twenty minutes ) , and an opportunity be gained of observing if the density of the hydrogenium remains constant , or if it varies with the proportion in which hydrogen enters the alloy .
In the following statement , which includes the three experiments already reported , the essential points only are produced .
TABLE .
Volumes Linear expansion in Density of hydrogen millimetres .
of occluded .
From Hydrogenium .
From To 329 496-189 498-552 2-055 462 493-040 496-520 1'930 487 370-358 373-126 1'927 745 305-538 511-303 1'917 867 488-976 495-656 1'898 888 556-185 563-652 1-977 936 609-144 618-923 1-708 If the first and last experiments only are ' compared , it would appear that the hydrogenium becomes sensibly denser when the proportion of it is small , ranging from 1 708 to 2-055 .
But the last experiment of the Table it perhaps exceptional ; and all the others indicate considerable uniformity of density .
The mean density of hydrogenium , according to the whole experiments , excluding that last referred to , is 1*951 , or nearly 2 .
This uniformity is in favour of the method followed for estimating the density of hydrogenium .
On charging and discharging portions of the same palladium wire repeatedly , the curious retraction was found to continue , and seemed to be interminable .
The following expansions , caused by variable charges of hydrogen , were followed on expelling the hydrogen by the retractions mentioned .
Elongation .
Retraction .
1st Experiment 9'77 millims ... ... ... .
970 millims. 2nd , , 5 765 , , ... ... ... .
620 , , 3rd , , 236 , , ... ... ... .
314 , , 4th , , 3482 , , ... ... ... .
495 , , 23'99 The palladium wire , which originally measured 609*144 millims. , has suffered , by four successive discharges of hydrogen from it , a permanent contraction of 23'99 millims. ; that is , a reduction of 3'9 per cent. on its original length .
The contractions will be observed to exceed in amount the preceding elongations produced by the hydrogen , particularly when the charge of the latter is less considerable .
With another portion of wire the contraction was carried to 15 per cent. of its length by the effect of repeated discharges .
The specific gravity of the contracted wire was 12 12 , no general condensation of the metal having taken place .
The wire shrinks in length only .
In the preceding experiments the hydrogen was expelled by exposing the palladium placed within a glass tube to a moderate heat short of redness , and exhausting by means of a Sprengel tube ; but the gas was also withdrawn in another way , namely , by making the wire the positive electrode , and thereby evolving oxygen upon its surface .
In such circumstances a slight film of oxide of palladium is formed on the wire , but it appears not to interfere with the extraction and oxidation of the hydrogen .
The wire measured , Difference .
Before charge ... ... 443'25 millims. With hydrogen ... ... 449-90 , , + 665 millims. After discharge ... ... 437-31 , , --594 , , The retraction of the wire therefore does not require the concurrence of a high temperature .
This experiment further proved that a large charge of hydrogen may be removed in a complete manner by exposure to the positive pole ( for four hours in this case ) ; for the wire in its ultimate state gave no hydrogen on being heated in vacuo .
That particular wire , which had been repeatedly charged with hydrogen , was once more exposed to a maximum charge , for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not its elongation under hydrogen might now be facilitated and become greater in consequence of the previous large retraction .
No such extra elongation , however , was observed on charging the retracted wire more than once ; and the expansion continued to be in the usual proportion to the hydrogen absorbed .
The final density of the wire was 12'18 .
The wire retracted by heat is found to be altered in another way , which appears to indicate a molecular change .
When the gas has been expelled by heat , the metal gradually loses much of its power to take up hydrogen .
The last wire , after it had already been operated upon six times , was again charged with hydrogen for two hours , and was found to occlude only 320 volumes of gas , and in a repetition of the experiment , 330'5 volumes .
The absorbent power of the palladium had therefore been reduced to about one-third of its maximum .
The condition of the retracted wire appeared , however , to be improved by raising its temperature to full redness by sending through it an-electrical current from a battery .
The absorption rose thereafter to 425 volumes of hydrogen , and in a second experiment to 422'5 volumes .
The wire becomes fissured longitudinally , acquires a thready structure , and is much disintegrated on repeatedly losing hydrogen , particularly when the hydrogen has been extracted by electrolysis in an acid fluid .
The palladium in the last case is dissolved by the acid to some extent .
The metal appeared , however , to recover its full power to absorb hydrogen , now condensing upwards of 900 volumes of gas .
The effect upon its length of simply annealing the palladium wire by exposure in a porcelain tube to a full red heat , was observed .
The wire measured 556-075 millims. before , and 555-875 millims. after heating ; or a minute retraction of 0-2 millim , was indicated .
In a second annealing experiment , with an equal length of new wire , no sensible change whatever of length could be discovered .
There is no reason , then , to ascribe the retraction after hydrogen , in any degree , to the heat applied when the gas is expelled .
Palladium wire is very slightly affected in physical properties by such annealing , retaining much of its first hardness and elasticity .
2 .
Tenacity.-A new palladium wire , similar to the last , of which 100 millims. weighed 0'1987 grm. , was broken , in experiments made on two different portions of it , by a load of 10 and of 10 ' 17 kilogrammes .
Two other portions of the same wire , fully charged with hydrogen , were broken by 8'18 , and by 8'27 kilogrammes .
Hence we haveTenacity of palladium wire ... ... ... ... ... ... 100 Tenacity of palladium and hydrogen ... ... ... .
81 29 The tenacity of the palladium is reduced by the addition of hydrogen , but not to any great extent .
It is a question whether the degree of tenacity that still remains is reconcileable with any other view than that the second element present possesses of itself a degree of tenacity such as is only found in metals .
3 .
Electrical Conductivity.-Mr .
Becker , who is familiar with the practice of testing the capacity of wires for conducting electricity , submitted a palladium wire , before and after being charged with hydrogen , to trial , in cor parison with a wire of German silver of equal diameter and length , at 10 ? ?
5 .
The conducting-power of the several wires was found as follows , being referred to pure copper as 100:Pure copper ... ... ... .100 Palladium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
8 10 Alloy of 80 copper+20 nickel ... ... ... ... . .
6-63 Palladium +hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5'99 A reduced conducting-power is generally observed in alloys , and the charged palladium wire falls 25 per cent. But the conducting-power remains still considerable , and the result may be construed to favour the metallic character of the second constituent of the wire .
Dr. Matthiessen confirms these results .
4 .
Magnetism.-It is given by Faraday as the result of all his experiments , that palladium is " feebly but truly magnetic ; " and this element he placed at the head of what are now called the paramagnetic metals .
But the feeble magnetism of palladium did not extend to its salts .
In repeating such experiments , a horseshoe electromagnet of soft iron , about 15 centims. ( 6 inches ) in height , was made use of .
It was capable of supporting 60 kilogs .
, when excited by four large Bunsen cells .
This is an induced magnet of very moderate power .
The instrument was placed with its poles directed upwards ; and each of these was provided with a small square block of soft iron terminating laterally in a point , like a small anvil .
The palladium under examination was suspended between these points in a stirrup of paper attached to three fibres of cocoon silk , 3 decimetres in length , and the whole was covered by a bell glass .
A filament of glass was attached to the paper , and moved as an index on a circle of paper on the glass shade divided into degrees .
The metal , which was an oblong fragment of electrcdeposited palladium , about 8 millims. in length and 3 millims. in widthg being at rest in an equatorial positon ( that is , with its ends averted from the poles of the electromagnet ) , the magnet was then charged by connecting it with the electrical battery .
The palladium was deflected slightly from the equatorial line by 10 ?
only , the magnetism acting against the torsion of the silk suspending thread .
The same palladium charged with 604*6 volumes of hydrogen was deflected by the electromagnet through 48 ?
0 when it set itself at rest .
The gas being afterwards extracted , and the palladium again placed equatorially between the poles , it was not deflected in the least perceptible degree .
The addition cf hydrogen adds manifestly , therefore , to the small natural magnetism of the palladium .
To have some terms of comparison , the same little mass of electro-deposited palladium was steeped in a solution of nickel , of sp. gr. 1'082 , which is known to be magnetic .
The deflection under the magnet was now 35 ?
, or less than with hydrogen .
The same palladium being afterwards washed and impregnated with a solution of protosulphate of iron of sp. gr. 1 048 , of which the metallic mass held 2'3 per cent. of its weight , the palladium gave a deflection of 50 ?
, or nearly the same as with hydrogen .
With a stronger solution of the same salt , of sp. gr. 1-17 , the deflection was 90 ?
, and the palladium pointed axially .
Palladium in the form of wire or foil gave no deflection when placed in the same apparatus , of which the moderate sensitiveness was rather an advantage in present circumstances ; but when afterwards charged with hydrogen , the palladium uniformly gave a sensible deflection of about 20 ? .
A previous washing of the wire or foil with hydrochloric acid , to remove any possible traces of iron , did not modify this result .
Palladium reduced from the cyanide and also precipitated by hypophosphorous acid , when placed in a small glass tube , was found to be not sensibly magnetic by our test ; but it always acquired a sensible magnetism when charged with hydrogei .
218 Mi~r .
Grahamn onr the Relat~aion ?
It appears to follow that hydrogenium is magnetic , a property which is confined to metals and their compounds .
This magnetism is not perceptible in hydrogen gas , which was placed both by Faraday and by M. E. Becqu !
rel at the bottom of the list of diamagnetic substances .
This gas is allowed to be upon the turning-point between the paramagnetic and diamagnetic classes .
But magnetism is so liable to extinction under the influence of heat , that the magnetism of a metal may very possibly disappear entirely when it is fused or vaporized , as appears to be the case with hydrogen in the form of gas .
As palladium stands high in the series of the paramagnetic metals , hydrogenium must be allowed to rise out of that class , and to take place in the strictly magnetic group , with iron , nickel , cobalt , chromium , and manganese .
5 .
Pallatdium with ydrog , en at a high Temperature.-The ready permeability of heated palladium by hydrogen gas would imply the retenl tion of the latter element by the metal even at a bright red heat .
The hydrogeniumn must in fact travel through the palladium by cementation , a molecular process which requires time .
The first attempts to arrest hydrogen in its passage through the red-hot metal were made by transmitting hydrogen gas through a metal tube of palladium with a vacuum outside , rapidly followed by a stream of carbonic acid , in which the metal was allowed to cool .
When the metal was afterwards examined in the usual way , no hydrogen could be found in it .
The short period of exposure to the carbonic acid seems to have been sufficient to dissipate the gas .
But on heating palladium foil red-hot in a flame of hydrogen gas , and suddenly cooling the metal in water , a small portion of hydrogen was found locked up in the metal .
A volume of metal amounting to 0'062 cubic centim. , gave 0-080 cubic centim. of hydrogen ; or , the gas , measured cold , was 1'306 times the bulk of the metal .
This measure of gas would amount to three or four times the volume of the metal at a red heat .
Platinum treated in the same way appeared also to yield hydrogen , although the quantity was too small to be much relied upon , amounting only to 006 volume of the metal .
The permeation of these metals by hydrogen appears therefore to depend on absorption , and not to require the assumption of anything like porosity in their structure .
The highest velocity of permeation observed was in the experiment where four litres of hydrogen ( 3992 cub. centims. ) per minute passed through a plate of palladium 1 millim. in thickness , and calculated for a square metre in surface , at a bright red heat a little short of the melting-point of gold .
This is a travelling movement of hydrogen through the substance of the metal with the velocity of 4 millimetres per minute .
6 .
Chlemical Properties.-The chemical properties of hydrogenium also distinguish it from ordinary hydrogen .
The palladium alloy precipitates mercury and calomel from a solution of the chloride of mercury without any disengagement of hydrogen , that is , hydrogenium decomposes chloride of mercury , while hydrogen does not .
This explains why M. Stanislas R Meunier failed in discovering the occluded hydrogen of meteoric iron , by dissolving the latter in a solution of chloride of mercury ; for the hydrogen would be consumed , like the iron itself , in precipitating mercury .
Hydrogen ( associated with palladium ) unites with chlorine and iodine in the dark , reduces a persalt of iron to the state of protosalt , converts red prussiate of potash into yellow prussiate , and has considerable deoxidizing powers .
It appears to be the active form of hydrogen , as ozone is of oxygen .
The general conclusions which appear to flow from this inquiry are , that in palladium fully charged with hydrogen , as in the portion of palladium wire now submitted to the Royal Society , there exists a compound of palladium and hydrogen in a proportion which may approach to equal equivalents* .
That both substances are solid , metallic , and of a white aspect .
That the alloy contains about 20 volumes of palladium united with a volume of hydrogeniurn ; and that the density of the latter is about 2 , a little higher than magnesium to which hydrogenium may be supposed to bear some analogy .
That hydrogenium has a certain amount of tenacity , and possesses the electrical conductivity of a metal .
And finally , that hydrogenium takes its place among magnetic metals .
The latter fact may have its bearing upon the appearance of hydrogenium in meteoric iron , in association with certain other magnetic elements .
I cannot close this paper without taking the opportunity to return my best thanks to Mr. W. C. Roberts for his valuable cooperation throughout the investigation .

