A paper was read , entitled , " Inquiries respecting the Constitu ?
tion of Salts .
Of Oxalates , Nitrates , Phosphates , Sulphates , and Chlorides .
" By Thomas Graham , Esq. , F.R.S. Edin .
, Professor of Chemistry in the Andersonian University of Glasgow , Correspond ?
ing Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Berlin , &amp;c. Communicated by Richard Phillips , Esq. , F.R.S. The results which the author had obtained from his former experiments , and of which he communicated an account to the Royal Society , suggested to him the probability that the law with re ?
spect to warer being a constituent of sulphates , would extend also to any hydrated acid and the magnesian salt of that acid .
As he had already found that the sulphate of water is constituted like the sulphate of magnesia , so he now finds the oxalate of water to resemble the oxalate of magnesia , and the nitrate of water to resem ?
ble the nitrate of magnesia .
His researches render it probable that the correspondence between water and the magnesian class of oxides extends beyond their character as bases ; and that in certain subsalts of the magnesian class of oxides , the metallic oxide replaces the water of crystallization of the neutral salt , and discharges a function which was thought peculiar to water .
In the formation of a double sulphate , the author finds that a certain degree of substitution or displacement occurs ; such as the displacement of an atom of water pertaining to the sulphate of magnesia , by an atom of sul ?
phate of potash , to form the double sulphate of magnesia and pot ?
ash .
The same kind of displacement appears to occur , likewise , in the construction of double oxalates ; and the application of this principle enables us to understand the constitution both of the double and super-oxalates , and to explain the mode of their derivation .
The author then proceeds to apply these principles to the analy ?
sis of the oxalates ; and Ist , of the oxalate of water , or hydrated oxalic acid ; 2ndly , of oxalate ofzinc ; 3rdly , of oxalate of magnesia ; 4thly , of oxalate oflime5thly , of oxalate of barytes ; Gthly , of oxalate of potash ; / tlily , of binoxalate of potash ; 8thly , of quadroxalate of potash ; 9thly , of oxalate of ammonialOthly , of oxalate ofsoda ; llthly , of binoxalate of soda ; and lastly , of the double oxalates , such as , 1st , oxalate of potash and copper ; 2ndly , oxalate of chromium and potash ; Srdly , oxalate of peroxide of iron and potash , and 4thly , of oxalate of peroxide of iron and soda .
In the second section he treats of the nitrates ; and 1st , of hy ?
drated nitric acid , or the nitrate of water j 2ndly , of nitrate of cop ?
per j Srdly , of subnitrate of copper ; 4thly , of nitrate and subnitrate of bismuth ; 5thly , of nitrate ofzinc ; Gthly , of nitrate of magnesia ; and 7thly , of supposed double nitrates and supei nitrates .
He concludes , from his experiments on this subject , that there is no proof of the existence of a single supernitrate .
In the third section he discusses the constitution of the phos ?
phates .
Phosphoric acid , he observes , is quite peculiar in being capable of combining with bases in three different proportions ; forming , besides the usual class of monobasic salts , containing one atom of acid to one atom of protoxide as base , two other anormal classes of salts , in which two or three atoms of base are united to one atom of acid , namely , the pyrophosphates and the common phosphates , as they are usually denominated , but which the author proposes to designate by the terms , bibasic , and tribasic phosphates .
Arsenic acid forms only one class of salts ; but that class is anormal ; every member of it containing three atoms of base to one atom of acid , like the common , or tribasic , phosphates .
These anormal classes of phosphates and arseniates , with , perhaps , the phosphites , are , the author believes , the only known salts to which the ordinary idea of a subsalt is truly applicable : all other reputed subsalts be ?
ing probably neutral in composition , as has been shown by the author in the case of the subnitrate of copper - } for they all bear an analogy to this salt in their small solubility and other properties , while they exhibit little resemblance to those classes of phosphates and arseniates which rcally possess more than one atom of base .
A table is then given , containing the formulae expressing the composi ?
tion of the most important phosphates , together with a new nomenclature by which , in aceordanee with his views , the author proposes to designate these salts .
He then enters into the details of experiments illustrating the composition of , 1st , tribasic phosphate ofsoda , ammonia , and water , ( or the microcosmic salt of the old chemists ) : 2ndly , tribasic phosphate of zinc and water , ( or what is commonly called phosphate ofzinc ) : Srdly , tribasic arseniate of magnesia and water , ( the common arseniate of magnesia ) : 4thly , tribasic phosphate of magnesia and water , ( or ordinary phosphate of magnesia ) : and 5thly , tribasic phosphate of magnesia and ammonia , ( or ammoniacomagnesian phosphate ) .
In the fourth section he treats of sulphates , and supports , by further evidence , the opinion he formerly advanced ; thatas bisulphate of potash is a double sulphate of water and potash , and therefore neutral in its composition , so , with the sole exception of the anortnal class already noticed , all salts , usually considered as bisalts are , in like manner , really neutral in composition .
He shows that this theory is strictly applicahle to the red chromate of potash , which appeared to present a difficulty .
The chlorides are next considered .
The law followed by the chlorides of the magnesian class of metals appears to be that they have two atoms of water strongly attached tothem , and which may , therefore , be regarded as constitutional .
Thus , chloride of copper crystalli/ :es with two atoms of water , and with no lower proportion ; but several chlorides of this class have two or four atoms more ; the proportion of water advancing by multiples of two atoms .
The chlorides have probably their analoguesin the cyanides , although we are less acquainted with the single cyanides of iron , copper , &amp; c : but the disposition of the protocyanide of iron , and of thecyanide of copper to combine with two atoms of cyanide of potassium , may de ?
pend on the cyanides of iron and of copper possessing , like the cor ?
responding chlorides , two atoms of constitutional water , which are displaced by two atoms of the alkaline cyanide in the formation of the double cyanides .

