Concerning the State in which the true Sap of Trees is deposited during Winter .
In a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read January 24 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 88 .
] This paper may be considered as a continuation of Mr. Knight 's former communications respecting the motion of the sap in trees .
Du Hamel , and other subsequent naturalists , have shown that trees contain two kinds of sap ; and the chief purpose of Mr. Knight 's paper is to prove that one of them ( called by Du Hamel suc propre , and by Mr. Knight the true sap , ) is generated in the leaf ; and that this fluid , in an inspissated state , or some.concrete substance deposited by it , exists during the winter in the alburnum , from which substance , dissolved in the ascending aqueous sap , is derived the matter which enters into the composition of the new leaves in the spring .
To the above-mentioned deposition , Mr. Knight attributes the well-known superiority of winter-felled wood , which superiority has generally been supposed owing merely to the absence of the sap at that season .
Du Hamel has remarked , that trees perspire more when the leaves are full grown , and when the annual shoots have ceased to elongate , than at any earlier period .
This energy in the powers of vegetation must certainly , Mr. Knight thinks , be employed in some very important operation .
He has observed that the produce of his meadows has been greatly increased when the herbage of the preceding year had been left till the end of autumn , on ground that had been mowed early in the summer ; from which he has been led to imagine , that leaves are employed during the latter part of the summer in the preparation of matter calculated to afford food to the buds and blossoms of the succeeding spring .
In order to determine whether the foregoing opinions were well founded or not , Mr. Knight made the following experiments .
Having made incisions in the trunks of sycamore and birch-trees ( some of these incisions being close to the ground , others at the elevation of seven feet ) , he found that the sap obtained from the sycamore close to the ground , was of the specific gravity of 1-004 , while that obtained at the height of seven feet had a specific gravity of 1 008 .
The sap of the birch was somewhat lighter ; but the increase of specific gravity , at different elevations , was comparatively the same .
The sap of both these trees , when extracted near the ground , was almost void of taste ; but when obtained at a greater height , it was sensibly sweet .
In one instance it was extracted from the sycamore-tree at the height of twelve feet ; it was then very sweet , and its specific gravity was 1012 .
Mr. Knight then made an experiment to compare the sap obtained from a recent incision with that obtained from an old one .
He found that the sap from an old incision was reduced in specific gravity to 1*002 , while that from the recent incision continued at 1-004 , as before .
These incisions were made in a sycamore-tree , and were close to the ground .
Some observations then follow on the variation in the specific gravity of the alburnum at different seasons .
After taking every precaution to avoid error , the author found the specific gravity of winterfelled .
oak to be 0-679 , and that of summer-felled oak to be 0X609 , after they had both been immersed five minutes in water .
This difference appearing to Mr. Knight very considerable , he repeated the experiment several times , but found no reason to suspect any error in it ; and upon measuring pieces of both kinds of wood , which were equal in weight , it appeared that the winter-felled pieces were much less than the others .
The more recently formed layers of winterfelled wood had a specific gravity of 0-583 ; that of the summer-felled wood was only 0 533 .
In another experiment the former was 0 588 , the latter 0 534 .
On pouring boiling water on equal quantities of summerand of winter-felled wood , it appeared that the latter communicated a much deeper colour to the water than the former ; it also raised the specific gravity of the water to 1-002 ; the specific gravity of the other infusion was Ol001 .
Mr. Knight thought he had reason to believe that the matter deposited in the alburnum sometimes remains unemployed during several successive years ; he therefore cut off , in the winter , all the branches of a large and very old pear-tree , at a small distance from the trunk , and pared off , at the same time , all the lifeless external bark .
No marks of vegetation appeared till the beginning of July following , when numerous buds and leaves , of large size , appeared ; and in autumn every part was covered with very vigorous shoots .
The number of leaves appeared to Mr. Knight to exceed very much the whole of those the tree had borne in the three preceding years .
Mr. Knight says that he has repeated , with success , the experiments of Bonnet and Du Hamel , and that he is in possession of many other facts which , like those experiments , tend to prove that seedling trees depend , at first , entirely on the nutriment afforded by the cotyledons ; and that they are greatly injured , and often killed , by being put to vegetate in rich mould .
He thinks there is very decisive evidence that bulbous and tuberous-rooted plants contain within themselves the matter which subsequently composes their leaves ; also that it appears extremely probable , that the blossoms of trees receive their nutriment from the alburnum , particularly as the blossoms of many plants precede their leaves .
Mr. Knight also thinks the existence of a vegetable circulation , though denied by many eminent naturalists , must be admitted .
He supposes that when a seed is placed in a proper situation for vegetation , water is absorbed by the cotyledons , and a young radicle is emitted .
This increases in length , by the addition of new matter to its apex , not by any general distension of its vessels or fibres ; which new matter appears , from the experiments of Bonnet and Du Hamel , to descend from the cotyledons .
The first motion , therefore , of the fluids is downwards , towards the point of the root ; and the vessels which carry those fluids are similar to those which are subsequently found in the bark .
In support of this opinion , he mentions some observations he has made on the progressive changes which take place in the radicle of the horse-chestnut .
From these it appears , that when the roots were considerably elongated , and not till then,.alburnous tubes were formed , and that as soon as these tubes had acquired a sufficient degree of firmness , they appeared to begin their office of carrying up the aqueous sap ; at which time , and not sooner , the leaves of the plumula expanded .
When the leaf has attained its proper growth , it seems to perform precisely the office of the cotyledon , being fed by the alburnous tubes and central vessels ; and the true sap is discharged from the leaf , as it was previously from the cotyledon , into the vessels of the bark .
Here one part of it produces the new layer of wood ( or new epidermis when that is to be formed ) , and the remaining part enters the pores of the wood already formed , and mixes with the ascending aquLeous sap .
The author thinks it probable that the true sap undergoes a considerable change on its mixture with the ascending aqueous sap , as in the sycamore ; it was found to become more sensibly sweet in its progress in the root , in the spring , although he could never detect the slightest degree of sweetness in decoctions of the wood in winter .
He therefore is inclined to believe , that the saccharine matter is generated by a process similar to that of the germination of seeds ; and that the said process is always going on during the spring and summer ; but that towards the conclusion of the summer , the true sap simply accumulates in the alburnum , and thus adds to the specific gravity of winter-felled wood , and increases the quantity of its extractive matter .
He says also , that he has some reasons for thinking that the true sap descends through the alburnum , as well as through the bark ; and that he has been informed , that if the bark be taken from the trunks of trees in the spring , and such trees be suffered to grow till the following winter , the alburnum acquires a great degree of hardness and durability .
Mr. Knight concludes by observing , that he conceives himself to be in possession of facts , which prove that both buds and roots originate from the alburnous substance of plants , and not , as he believes is generally supposed , from the bark .

