II .
" On the Occlusion of Hydrogen Gas by Metals .
" By THOMAS GRAHAM , F.R.S. , Master of the Mint .
Received May 22 , 1868 .
In my experiments , already published , on the occlusion of hydrogen by the metals palladium , platinum , and iron , the absorption of the gas was observed to be of uncertain occurrence at low temperatures , but was ensured by heating the metal , whether in the form of sponge or aggregated by hammering , and allowing it to cool slowly and completely in a hydrogen atmosphere .
This fact was referred to the condition of absolute purity of the metallic surface being essential to the first absorbing action , as it is to the action of platinum-foil or wire in determining the combustion of the gaseous mixture of oxygen and hydrogen , as observed by Faraday .
A new method of charging the metals with hydrogen at low temperatures has lately presented itself , which is not without interest .
When a plate of zinc is placed in dilute sulphuric acid , hydrogen is freely evolved from the surface of the metal , but no hydrogen is occluded and retained at the same time .
A negative result was indeed to be expected from the crystalline structure of zinc .
But a thin plate of palladium immersed in the same acid , and brought into metallic contact with the zinc , soon becomes largely charged with the hydrogen , which is then transferred to its surface .
The charge taken up in an hour by a palladium plate , rather thick , at 12 ?
amounted to 173 times its volume .
The absorption of hydrogen was still more obvious when the palladium plate was constituted the negative electrode in acidulated water to a Bunsen battery of six cells .
The evolution of oxygen gas at the positive electrode continuing copious , the effervescence at the negative electrode was entirely suspended for the first twenty seconds , in consequence of the hydrogen being occluded by the palladium .
The final absorption amounted to 200'4 volumes , and was greater in amount than the volume of hydrogen occluded by the same plate heated and cooled in an atmosphere of the gas , which did not exceed 90 volumes .
It is worthy of remark that , although the hydrogen enters the palladium and no doubt pervades the whole mass of the metal in such circumstances , the gas exhibits no disposition to leave the metal and escape into a vacuum , at the temperature of its absorption .
Thus a thin plate of pal .
ladium , charged with hydrogen in the manner described , was washed , dried by a cloth , and then sealed up in an exhausted glass tube .
On 422 [ June 11 , breaking the tube under mercury after two months , the vacuum was found perfect .
No hydrogen had vaporized in the cold ( about 12 ?
) ; but on the application afterwards of a heat of 100 ?
and upwards , 333 volumes of gas were evolved from the metal .
A similar result was obtained on making a hollow palladium cylinder , of which the length was 115 millimetres , diameter 12 millimetres , and thickness 1 millimetre , the negative electrode in an acid fluid , while the closed cavity of the cylinder was kept exhausted by means of a Sprengel aspirator .
No hydrogen whatever passed through into the vacuous cavity in several hours , although the gas was no doubt abundantly absorbed by the outer surface of the cylinder and pervaded the metal throughout .
It appears , then , that when hydrogen is absorbed by palladium the volatility of the gas may be entirely suppressed ; and hydrogen may be largely present in metals without exhibiting any sensible tension at low temperatures .
Occluded hydrogen is certainly no longer a gas , whatever may be thought of its physical condition .
The same conclusion was indicated by another series of experiments , in which it was found that , to be occluded by palladium , and even by iron , hydrogen does not require to be applied under much pressure , but , on the contrary , when highly rarefied is still freely absorbed by these metals .
The occluded hydrogen is readily extracted from palladium by reversing the position of the latter in the decomposing cell of the battery , so as to cause oxygen to be evolved on the surface of the metal .
The hydrogen is then drawn out as rapidly as it had previously entered the palladium , and the metal is exhausted in a complete manner by such treatment .
When palladium charged with hydrogen is left exposed to the atmosphere , the metal is apt to become suddenly hot , and to lose its gas entirely by spontaneous oxidation .
Platinum may be charged with hydrogen by voltaic action , as well as palladium , but with the usual inferior proportion of gas .
The charge of hydrogen taken up in a decomposing voltaic cell by old platinum in the form of a tube , of the thickness of a small crucible , was 2 19 volumes .
This absorbed gas was also readily withdrawn from the platinum and oxidized on reversing the place of the metal in the decomposing cell .
The platinum acquired its well-known polarizing-power in virtue of the occluded hydrogen .
This power was retained by the metal after being washed with pure water and wiped with a cloth , and was brought into action on placing the metal in dilute acid .
The temperature required to expel the hydrogen so absorbed by platinum was found to be little short of a red heat , although the gas had entered the metal at a low temperature .
Soft iron , left some time in a dilute acid , occluded 0-57 volume of hydrogen .
This charge of gas was also retained at low temperatures , and did not escape into a vacuum till the temperature was raised nearly to redness .
This proves that , like platinum , iron is not penetrated through in the cold by hydrogen , the temperature of emission being elevated considerably * .
In MI .
Cailletet 's experiment of exposing a thin sheet of iron to an acid , the metal 1868 .
] 4.23 While hydrogen was absorbed freely by palladium and platinum as negative plates , no oxygen whatever was absorbed by plates of the same metals in the position of positive electrodes .
Oxygen gas was disengaged freely on the surface of the latter without being condensed .
A platinum plate which had acted for several hours as a positive electrode , gave afterwards , when submitted to heat with exhaustion , a small trace of carbonic acid but no oxygen .
The familiar igniting-power of platinum sponge ( or clean plate ) upon a jet of hydrogen in the air seems to depend solely upon the influence of the metal upon its occluded hydrogen .
The hydrogen appears to be polarized , and to have its attraction for oxygen greatly heightened .
I beg to offer the following representation of this phenomenon , with an apology for the purely speculative character of the explanation .
The gaseous molecule of hydrogen being assumed to be an association of two atoms , a hydride of hydrogen , it would follow that it is the attraction of platinum for the negative or " c chlorylous " atom of the hydrogen molecule which attaches the latter to the metal .
The tendency , imperfectly satisfied , is to the formation of a hydride of platinum .
The hydrogen molecule is accordingly polarized , orient , with its positive or " basylous " side turned outwards , and having its affinity for oxygen greatly enlivened .
It is true that the two atoms of a molecule of hydrogen are considered to be inseparable ; but this may not be inconsistent with the replacement of such hydrogen atoms as are withdrawn , on combining with oxygen , by other hydrogen atoms from the adjoining molecules .
It is only necessary to suppose that a pair of contiguous hydrogen molecules act together upon a single molecule of the external oxygen .
They would form water , and still leave a pair of atoms , or a single molecule of hydrogen , attached to the platinum .
The oxidation of alcohol , ether , and similar hydrocarbons , through the agency of platinum , likewise appears to be always an immediate consequence of a similar polarization of the hydrogen of those substances , or of some other oxidable constituent .
As has already been remarked , it does not follow that , because a gas is occluded by a metal , under the pressure of the atmosphere , at a low temperature , the gas will also escape from the metal into a vacuum at the same temperature , a much higher temperature being often required for the expulsion of the gas than for its first absorption .
This is particularly true of carbonic oxide occluded by iron .
Cast iron is much too porous for such experiments , and allows carbonic oxide , equally with other gases , to pass through abundantly by the agency of gaseous diffusion .
Even with malleable iron there is a difficulty in observing , owing to the long time during which that metal continues to discharge carbonic oxide from its own store of that gas .
But a malleable iron tube , first thoroughly deprived of its natural gas , was found to allow carbonic oxide to pass through is no doubt penetrated through by hydrogen in the cold , but apparently from the penetrating agency of the acid which is insinuating itself into the metal at the same time.-Cgomptes Reacdus , 4 Mtiai 1868 .
it into a vacuum very slowly compared with hydrogen , although the volume of carbonic oxide which the metal is capable of absorbing is very sensible , amounting to 4 volumes , and more considerable than the volume of hydrogen which the same metal can occlude .
Carbonic oxide did not sensibly pass through iron of 1'7 millimetre in thickness till the temperature was greatly elevated ; and then the passage of gas was , in a minuteOf carbonic oxide , at a full red heat , 0'284 cub. centim. per square metre of surface .
Of hydrogen oxide , at a full red heat , 76'5 cub. centims. per square metre of surface .
The condition of hydrogen as occluded by a colloidal metal may be studied with most advantage in its union with palladium , where the proportion of gas held is considerable .
In the pulverulent spongy state , palladium took up 655 volumes of hydrogen ; and so charged it gave off no gas in vacuo at the ordinary temperature , nor till its temperature was raised to nearly 100 ? .
Hammered palladium foil has been observed to take up quite as much gas .
But the condition in which palladium appears to be most absorptive is when precipitated from a solution of about 1'6 per cent. of the chloride , by the action of a voltaic battery , in the form of a compact metal .
Palladium is not one of the metals readily thus precipitated ; but it may be thrown down upon a thin platinum wire , in brilliant laminie , by the action of a large single cell .
The palladium after a time detaches itself from the wire , exhibiting a bright white metallic surface where it had been in contact with the platinum , and a dull surface , suggesting metallic arsenic , on the side exposed to the acid .
As so prepared , it does not contain any occluded hydrogen .
But the metallic films , when heated to 100 ?
in hydrogen , and allowed to cool slowly for an hour in the same gas , were found to occlude 982 14 volumes of gas , measured writh thermometer at 11 ?
, and barometer at 756 millimetres .
This is the largest absorption of hydrogen observed .
From palladium so charged there was a slight indication of the escape of hydrogen into a vacuum , with extreme slowness in the cold .
This charged palladium is represented by weight as Palladium 1'0020 grin ... ... ... ... ... ... 99'277 Hydrogen 0-0073 grin ... . .
7 ... ... ... ... .
* 723 100-000 It is in the proportion of one equivalent of palladium to 0'772 equivalent of hydrogen* , or there is an approximation to single equivalents Pd H. But the idea of definite chemical combination is opposed by various considerations .
No visible change is occasioned to the metallic palladium by its association with the hydrogen .
Hydrides of certain metals are known , as the hydride of copper ( Wurtz ) and the hydride of iron ( Wanklyn ) ; but they are brown pulverulent substances with no me ' I=1 , Pd== 106'5 , tallic characters .
Indeed a hydride of palladium itself can be formed , but not preserved , on account of its great instability .
Following the process of M. Wurtz for the hydride of copper , nitrate of palladium was boiled with sulphuric acid , and the sulphate of palladium ( a red crystalline salt ) prepared .
A solution of this salt , with an excess of sulphuric acid , was precipitated by the hypophosphite of soda ; a black powder fell , which speedily underwent decomposition at 0 ?
, evolving copious volumes of hydrogen gas .
The final residue appeared to be pure palladium , of its usual black amorphous appearance , and with no trace of crystallization .
It is singular that this palladium precipitate contained no occluded hydrogen ; and even when heated , and afterwards exposed to an atmosphere of hydrogen in the usual manner , the palladium black so prepared condensed no sensible quantity of that gas .
I am inclined to conclude that the passage of hydrogen through a plate of metal is always preceded by the condensation or occlusion of the gas .
But it must be admitted that the rapidity of penetration is not in proportion to the volume of gas occluded ; otherwise palladium would be much more permeable at a low than at a high temperature .
A plate of that metal was sensibly exhausted of hydrogen gas at 267 ?
, but continued permeable , and in fact increased greatly in permeability at still higher temperatures , and without becoming permeable to other gases at the same time .
In a striking experiment , a mixture of equal volumes of hydrogen and carbonic acid was carried through a small palladium tube , of which the internal diameter was 3 millimetres , and the thickness of the wall 0'3 millimetre .
From the outer surface of this tube gas escaped into a vacuum , at a red heat , with the enormous velocity of 1017'54 cub. centims. per minute for a square metre of surface .
This gas did not disturb barytawater .
It was pure hydrogen .
A still more rapid passage of hydrogen was observed through the substance of a hollow cylinder of palladium 1 millimetre in thickness , at a higher temperature , approaching the melting-point of gold .
The palladium cylinder being enclosed in a porcelain tube charged with pure hydrogen , was exhausted as usual , and gave 105'8 cub. centims of gas in five minutes ; measured with bar .
753 millims. , therm. 10 ? .
As the external surface of the palladium tube amounted to 0'0053 square metre , the passage of gas was 399 2'22 cub. centims. from a square metre of surface , per minute .
The rate of penetration of hydrogen through the same palladium tube , at the lower temperature of 265 ?
C. , was previously observed to be 327 cub. centims. from a square metre of surface , per minute .
The velocity of penetration thus appears to increase in a rapid ratio with the temperature .
When carbonic acid was substituted for hydrogen , at the same high temperature , a very minute penetration was perceived , amounting to 1'86 cub. centim. from a square metre of surface , per minute .
This gives for carbonic acid one twenty-thousandth part of the rate of hydrogen .
Whether it is a penetration of the same sort , although greatly less in degree , or rather the consequence of a sensible porosity in the palladium ( of which it would become the measure ) , remains uncertain , The quantity of hydrogen held by the metal at these high temperatures may become too small to be appreciated ; but I presume it is still present , and travels through the metal by a kind of rapid cementation .
This extreme mobility is a singular property of hydrogen , which was involved in the fundamental discovery , by MM .
H. Sainte-Claire Deville and Troost , of the passage of that gas through plates of iron and platinum at high temperatures .
The marked rapidity of the passage of the same gas through a thin sheet of caoutchouc appears to be more capable of explanation on known principles .
Caoutchouc of less than 01 millimetre in thickness , if impregnated with hydrogen , loses its gas entirely by the most momentary exposure to the air .
A tube of 2 millimetres in thickness , through which hydrogen and carbonic acid were singly passed , each for an hour , was found to retainOf hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-0113 volume .
Of carbonic acid ... ... ... ... 0'2200 , , The absorption , then , is in the proportion of 1 hydrogen to 20 carbonic acid ; but the comparative rate of penetration of the two gases through a sheet of caoutchouc is as 1 hydrogen to 2carbonic acid ; or the hydrogen moves eight times as rapidly as the density of its solution would indicate .
But these gases differ in diffusibility as carbonic acid 1 to hydrogen 4'7 .
The rapid passage of hydrogen through caoutchouc is thus partly explained by the rapid manner in which that gas is brought to one surface of the sheet and conveyed away from the other by gaseous diffusion .
Again , both substances travel through the substance of the caoutchouc by their diffusibility as liquids .
Suppose hydrogen in that form to be nearly as much more diffusive than the other substance as it is when both are gaseous , then the observed rapid passage of hydrogen through caoutchouc would appear to be fully accounted for .
Liquid diffusion has also a bearing upon the rapid dissemination of hydrogen through a soft colloid metal , like palladium or platinum , at a high temperature .
The liquid diffusion of salts in water is known to be six times as rapid at 100 ?
as at 0 ? .
If the diffusion of liquid hydrogen increases with temperature in an equal ratio , it must become a very rapid movement at a red heat .
Although the quantity absorbed may be reduced ( or the channel narrowed ) , the flow of liquid may thus be increased in velocity .
The whole phenomena appear to be consistent with the solution of liquid hydrogen in the colloid metal .
The " solution affinity " of metals appears to be nearly confined to hydrogen and carbonic oxide , so that metals are not sensibly penetrated by other gases than these .
Hydrogen Gas by Metals .
1868 .
] 427

