On the Economy of Bees .
In a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. to the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read May 14 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 234 .
] During the progress of the various experiments on vegetation , of which Mr. Knight has communicated accounts to the Society , he has had opportunities of paying considerable attention to the economy of bees , and has observed many interesting circumstances , that appear to have been overlooked by former writers .
A general opinion prevails that every hive remains at all times unconnected with other colonies in the neighbourhood , and that strangers are always considered as enemies .
Mr. Knight , on the contrary , has in several instances witnessed a friendly intercourse to take place between different colonies , and he imagines it to be productive of important consequences in their political economy .
Having observed several bees flying one evening at a later hour than they usually work , he endeavoured to discover how they were employed , and he found them to be passing in a direct line from one of his own hives to that of a cottager , about 100 yards distant .
There was a considerable degree of bustle and agitation in each of these hives ; every bee as it arrived seemed to be stopped and questioned at the mouth of each hive , but there was no appearance of hostility or resistance .
This kind of intercourse continued , in a greater or less degree , during the ' eight following days , and appeared to be amicable for the whole of that time .
But on the 10th their friendship terminated in a quarrel , and they fought desperately .
Mr. Knight has had other opportunities of observing a similar intercourse with the same result ; but he has reason to think that it not unfrequently terminates in a junction of the two swarms ; and he remembers to have observed , many years ago , circumstances perfectly similar in one hive followed by desertion of the labouring bees , who left the drones alone in possession of the hive , but without anything to live upon .
He further thinks , that when a junction is determined upon , they remove immediately , and return only during the day for the purpose of carrying off the honey .
Mr. Knight has also remarked the manner in which colonies of bees , proposing to emigrate , fix upon their future habitation .
He has frequently noticed an examination of certain hollow trees to take place for many days together by detachments of bees , from twenty to fifty in number .
This examination was not confined to the mere cavity , but extended to the external parts of the tree above ; as if they were apprehensive of injury from moisture by any perforation .
Their scouts must apparently have some means of communicating information of their success , without which it cannot be supposed that others would accidentally meet at a mile distance from their hive .
The search is , in general , continued for about a fortnight previous to their removal .
Mr. Knight has observed , that in this case also colonies will sometimes unite ; for he has seen , in two instances , a swarm received into a cavity , of which another swarm had previous possession , without opposition .
He infers , therefore , that some preceding intercourse must have taken place between the two swarms , although anything like an agreement between them be scarcely consistent with the limits generally supposed to be set to the instinctive powers of the brute creation .
When a young swarm issues from the parent hive , they generally soon settle on some neighbouring bush or tree , wholly unprotected from rain or cold ; and their object apparently is merely to collect their numbers previous to removal to the place they have fixed upon for their future residence .
Their readiness to accept a hive as a substitute , may appear to militate against any supposed predetermination ; but Mr. Knight is disposed to consider this as an hereditary habit produced by domestication , and confirmed in the breed by the uniform practice of many succeeding generations as a secondary instinct .
Accordingly , the original native propensity to migrate , remains more strong in some families of bees than in others .
Similar hereditary propensities are observable in the offspring of many other domesticated animals .
In the dog , more especially , appear the passions and propensities of its parent .
A young spaniel , brought up with terriers , showed no marks of emotion at the smell of a polecat , which instantly irritated the young terriers ; but it pursued a woodcock with clamour and exultation at first sight ; and the young pointer stands trembling with anxiety , with his eyes fixed and his muscles rigid , the very first time that he is conducted into the midst of a covey of partridges .
These peculiarities of character can be considered as nothing but hereditary propensities or acquired instincts ; and are modifications , capable of endless variation , in adapting animals to different countries and different states of domestication .
Mr. Knight 's further observations relate to the bee-bread and the bees ' wax .
Respecting the former , he agrees fully with Mr. Hunter , that the substance generally collected on the thighs of bees is the farina of plants for feeding their young ; but he observes that they occasionally carry other substances , and for other purposes , in the same manner .
With regard to the wax , he is not of Mr. Hunter 's opinion , that it is a secretion exuding from between the scales of the abdomen , but thinks that it is of vegetable origin , collected by the bees , and deposited between the scales for facility of conveyance , and for giving the requisite temperature for being moulded into combs .

