I. Observations on the Lumen Boreale , or Streaming on Oct. 8 , 1726 , by the Reverend Mr. W. Derham , F. R. S. ALthough the Lumen Bereale , or Streaming hath been a common Phenomenon , ever since the surprising one , Mar. 6 , 1715 , 16 , and as such , would not deserve to be taken notice of ; yet in this of Oct.8 , there were not only such surprising , but different Circumstances , that , I hope , the Royal Society will receive Accounts of them from many Hands ; which may enable the skilful Meteorologists to find out their Cause .
For the clearer proceding in my Relation , I shall observe , that there are two sorts of Streamings , which I have taken notice of ; one , by way of Explosion from the Horizon ; the other , by opening and shutting , without such Shootings up , and swift Dartings , as those were which appeared in the Lumen Boreale before spoken of .
Of the latter sort chiefly , was this last of Oct. 8 : in which , altho ' the Streams , or Spires , or Lances , or Cones or , what shall I call them ?
) were as large and remarkable as in the former ; yet they exhibited themselves principally by the vaporous Matter opening and shutting , as if a Curtain had been drawn and withdrawn before them .
The first View I had of this Phenomenon , was precisely at Eight o'Clock in the Evening : At which time , all I saw , was a long narrow Fascia , like a white ragged Cloud , extended cross the Heavens , from W. b. S. to E. b. N. which in a few Minutes began to emit some Streams , and then disappeared : Which was succeeded by much Streaming in the Northerly Parts ; and in a quarter of an Hour it began to reach other Points also ; and soon after that , it streamed all round in the Southerly , Easterly and Westerly Parts as much , or nearly as much as in the North .
Which was a thing I never had seen before in these Phenomenon .
Fig. 1 .
These Streams , or Cones , were for the most part pointed , so as to make the Appearance of flaming Spires , or Pyramids ; and some others were truncated , and reached but half way : Some also were longer , and some shorter ; some of which had their Points reaching up to the Zenith , or near it , where they formed a sort of Canopy , or thin Cloud , sometimes red , sometimes brownish , sometimes blazing as if fired , and sometimes emitting Streams all round it , which at that time gave it the appearance of such a Star as our Knights of the Garter wear on their Breasts .
This Canopy was manifestly formed by the Matter carried up by the Streaming on all parts of the Horizon : Which Matter sometimes seemed to ascend with some force , as if impelled by the Impetus of some explosive Agent below , as I have said it was in the Streaming of March 1715 , 16 , and which I gave the Society a large and particular Account of soon after .
This forcible Ascent of the streaming Matter , gave a Motion to the Canopy , sometimes a Gyration , like that of a Whirlwind ; which was manifestly caused by the Streams striking the outside Parts of the Canopy , as in the Figure : But when the streaming Matter hit the Canopy in the Middle , all was then in Confusion .
These two Partieulars , namely , the Streaming all round , in all Points of the Horizon ; and the Canopy in and near the Zenith , are what were taken notice of in all Parts of England , that I have met with any Accounts from ; particularly , in Northamptonshire , Staffordshire , Oxfordshire , Wiltshire , Berkshire , Middlesex , Somersetshire , and Essex , and in divers Parts beyond Sea .
The Reverend and Learned Mr. Wasse gives me this Account of its Appearance at Aynho in Northamptonshire , That at 7 h. 20~ p. M. he saw an Arch somewhat curved , like a Rainbow at first , and about half the Breadth of the Rainbow , and yellow ; which in about ten Minutes began to twist , and make an Angle at the Zenith : That one End of it was pretty much to the East , and not directly to the North ; and the Western End deflected as much to the South : That it remained after the Twist , at the Zenith , without any great Motion , not a quarter of an Hour .
After which , the Rods arose on all sides , from the Horizon to the Zenith , the upper Points seeming to move thro ' a sort of Vortex quite out of our Atmosphere : Which Rods , he thinks , rose perpendicularly from the Horizon , but seemed to converge towards the Zenith , according to the Rules of Perspective , by their Angle then being less than their Basis at the Horizon : That a Redness was perceived , which , he thinks , was strongest towards the West ; which Colour did not appear till the Arch brake into several Pieces , and overspread the Heavens with a thin faintish Fire , thro ' which they saw Jupiter very clearly .
This Account of Mr. Wasse 's may show , how the Phenomenon was in England ; by reason most of the Accounts I have met with , concur in the main with his But in the more Southerly Parts of Europe , I take it to have been somewhat different .
The NewsPapers tell us from Scaffhausen , that on the 19th of October there was a great Alarm in many Parts of Switzerland , on account of a great Light seen in the Air , from 7 o'Clock till Midnight ; which was supposed to be the Reflection of some great Conflagration .
At Bern , every body thought there was a Fire in some part or other of the City or Neighbourhood .
At Neufchatel , the Alarm-Bells were rung , and the Governor several Hours on Horseback , to give Orders , &amp;c. as in Cases of Distress .
All which they heard afterwards , was only an AuroraBorealis .
' ' And from Florence , my ingenious and curious Friend Sir Tho. Dereham sent me this Account , ` ` As to the Lumen Boreale , which appeared in these Parts on Oct. 8th last , I saw it my self in the following manner : It was one Hour and half after Sun-set , when I was passing thro ' a Piazza in this Town , that I discovered the Phenomenon , that seemed one Mile long , and three quarters of a Mile broad , of an almost perfect Oval Figure , hanging North and North-East to us : The Edges of it were of pale light Colour , like the first Dawn of the Morning ; and towards the Center , it increased its siery Colour ; so that in some Places it looked as the Fire of a Furnace ; but in the very Center , and many adjacent Parts , it was like a red-hot Iron growing cold , that seems bloody .
For a good while I could perceive no Motion in it ; but after a quarter of an Hour , I discovered a general slow Motion backwards and forwards , like that one sees of the Circulation of the Blood in the Tails of Fishes , by the help of the Microscope , but no manner of Darting ; insomuch much that in another quarter of an Hour it vanish ed imperceptibly , just as a Rainbow , and the Air grew dark again , that was so luminous before , that one might read a Manuscript by the same .
It is very remarkable , that at Fiesole , a Town within a short Mile of this , the Phenomenon seemed to those Inhabitants , to be between them and us , and they thought our Town was burning : Whereby it appears not to have been very deep , nor very high ; Fiesole standing upon a Hill half a Mile high , and to the North-North-East of this Town .
To these Observations of my self , and some of my Correspondents , I shall add two or three things more , before I enquire into the Cause of the Phenomenon .
One thing that was taken notice of in most Places , was , That in some part of the greatest Streaming , the Vapours between the Spires , or Lances , were of a Blood-red Colour .
That which I observed , was , That about half an Hour after Eight o'Clock , the Vapours towards the South-West were very dense , and for some time red .
And not long after , the like Redness arose in the North-East , and the other gradually went off .
Both which gave those Parts of the Atmosphere the Appearance of blazing Lances , and bloody-colour 'd Pillars .
Another thing I took notice of , was , a strange Commotion , and Working among the Streams , as if some large Cloud , or other Body was moving behind them , and disturbed them .
In the Northerly and Southerly Parts the Streams were perpendicular to the Horizon ; but in the intermediate Points they seemed to decline more or less one way or other ; or rather to incline towards the Meridian .
As As for the Weather , the Preceding Day was cloudy ' with an Hoar-Frost in the Morning ; but it cleared up , and grew warmer afterwards ; but towards the Horizon , very vaporous .
And the next Morning ( after the Streaming before Sun-rising , the Air was full of Vapours , with divers thin vaporous Clouds , some of a lucid brown , some reddish , which I took to be Remains of the Streaming , which , I was informed , continued all Night .
As for the Cause of these Phenomenon , I take it to be from the same Matter , or Vapours , which produce Earthquakes : And that for these Reasons : First , Because some of these Phenomenon have been followed by Earthquakes As that which Stow gives an Account of in his Annals , in the Year 1574 , on Nov. 14 .
in which he saith , were seen in the Air strange Impressions of Fire and Smoke to proceed forth of a black Cloud in the North towards the South .
That the next Night following , the Heavens from all parts did seem to burn marvellous ragingly , and over our Heads the Flames from the Horizon round about rising did meet , and there double and roll one in another , as if it had been in a clear Furnace .
And after this ( he tells us ) followed on the 26th of February , great Earthquakes in the Cities of York , Worcester , Gloucester , Bristol , Heresord , and in the Countries about , which caused the People to run out of their Houses , for fear they should have fallen on their Heads .
In Tewksbury , Breedon , &amp;c. the Dishes fell from the Cupboards , and the Books in Mens Studies from the Shelves : With more to the same purpose .
So this last ( in October ) was preceded by that satal Earthquake at Palermo in Sicily , and succeeded by one in England , on Tuesday , October 25 , following .
This , I hear , was perceived in London , and was very considerable

