XIH .
Additional Experiments on the Muriatic and Oxymuriatic Acids .
By William Henry , M. D. F.R. S. V. P. of the Lit. and Phil. Society , and Physician to the Infirmary , at Manchester .
Read March 19 , i81s .
THE experiments , which form the subject of the following pages , are intended as supplementary to a more extensive series , which the Royal Society did me the honour to insert in their Transactions for the year 1800o .
Of the general accuracy of those experiments , I have since had no reason to doubt ; and their results , indeed , are coincident with those of subsequent writers of the highest authority in chemistry .
My attention has been again drawn to the subject by the important controversy which has lately been carried on between Mr. MURRAY and Mr. JOHN DAVY , respecting the nature of muriatic and oxymuriatic acids ; t and I have been induced , by some hints which the discussion has suggested , not only to repeat the principal experiments described in my memoir , but to institute others , with the advantage of a more perfect apparatus than I then possessed , and of greater experience in the management of these delicate processes .
This repetition of my former labours has discovered to me an instance , in which I have failed in drawing the proper conclusion from facts .
In two comparative experiments on the electrization of equal quantities of muriatic acid gas , the one * Page 188 .
t NicHoLSON 's Journal , xxviii .
and xxix .
c. 9 of which was dried by muriate of lime , and the other was in its natural state , I found a difference of not more than one per cent. in the hydrogen evolved , relatively to the original bulk of the gas.* Yet , notwithstanding these results , have expressed myself inclined to believe that some water is astracted by that deliquescent salt ; and this belief was confirmed , several years afterwards , by the event of an experiment in which muriatic acid gas , dried by muriate of lime , gave only gits bulk of hydrogen , t a proportion much below the usual average .
The question , however , was too interesting to be left in any degree of uncertainty ; and I have , therefore , made several fresh experiments with the view to its decision , In the course of these I have found , that though differences in the results are produced by causes apparently trivialM some of which I shall afterwards point out , yet that under equal circumstances , precisely the same relative proportion of hydrogene gas is obtained from muriatic acid gas , whether exposed or not to muriate of lime ; and that its greatest amount does not exceed -f or ' the original volume of the acid gas .
In the paper last quoted , , I have also described an experiment , in which sensible heat was evolved by bringing muriate of lime into contact with muriatic acid gas ; a fact which , if established , would go far to prove the existence of water in that gas .
But on repeating the experiment with muriate of lime recently cooled from fusion , and over mercury carefully deprived of all moisture by boiling , : I was not able to discover any increase of tenperature , though a very sensible air thermometer was enclosed in the vessel containing the gas .
The evolution of heat takes place , only when the muriate of lime .
has attracted moisture , either from the atmosphere or the mercury , and is then owing to a condensation of a part of the gas .
Essentially , the changes produced by electrifying muriatic acid over mercury are those which I have stated ; viz. a contraction of the volume of the gas , the formation of muriate of mercury ( calomel ) , and the evolution of hydrogen .
Recent experiments , also , have confirmed the accuracy of the observation , * that when a certain effect has been produced by electricity , nothing is gained by continuing the process ; for neither is more hydrogen evolved , nor can the contraction of bulk be carried any farther .
I have lately applied , to experiments on muriatic acid , an apparatus which I used advantageously for the analysis of ammonia.t It consists of a spherical glass vessel , into which are hermetically sealed two small tubes containing platina wires , the points of which approach within the striking distance .
To the globular part is attached a neck , which may be closed , as occasion requires , either by a glass stopper or by a metal cap and stop-cock .
Into a vessel of this kind , I introduced 4cubic inches of muriatic acid gas , and passed through it 3000 discharges from a Leyden jar ; at the close of the process , no traces of moisture could be perceived on the inner surface of the vessel , nor could I discover , on opening the stopper , that any change of bulk had taken place .
After absorbing the unchanged muriatic acid gas by a small quant tity of water , a volume of gas remained , in which there were present 1oo measures ( each equal to one grain of mercury ) of oxymuriatic acid gas , and 140 measures of hydrogen .
Two causes might , perhaps , contribute to diminish , in some degree , the proportion of the former .
It was difficult to exclude from the apparatus , on admitting the muriatic acid gas into it , two or three very minute globules of mercury , which became tarnished during the experiment , exactly as they would have been by oxymuriatic acid ; and a small portion of the latter gas was probably also taken up by the water employed to absorb the muriatic acid .
With the intention of giving greater effect to the electricity , I repeated the experiment in a vessel capable of containing not more than 1400 grains of quicksilver ( about.41 of a cubic inch ) , the neck of which , being only of an inch in diameter , ; was better calculated to show any minute change in the volume of the gas .
On removing the stopper , however , no change of volume was apparent .
The hydrogen evolved , instead of beilg more than in the former experiment , equalled in bulk only 20 grains of mercury .
The production of oxymuriatic acid was sufficiently evinced by its effect in tarnishing some very small globules of quicksilver , which adhered to the inside of the vessel ; but the minuteness of the quantity frustrated an attempt to measure it .
From subsequent experiments on similar quantities of gas , confined in the same apparatus , it appeared that the electrization in this last instance had been continued much longer than was necessary ; and that an equal effect was produced by the number of electrical discharges .
In this way of making the experiment , the greatest proportion of hydrogen gas obtainable from muriatic acid amounted only to about A0th , while , by electrization over quicksilver , T or i-was generally evolved .
It was evident , the , that the mercury had considerable influence over the results ; and I found ; by experiments with tubes of diftrnt diameters that the larger the surface of the mercury exposed to the gas , the more rapid and complete was the change .
Its action was greatly accelerated , also , by causing the electric discharge to strike from the conducting wire , sealed into the tube , to the mercury , which was probably thus raised into vapour ; for in some instances , the whole of the inner surface of the glass was coated with sublimed calomel .
The only way , in which the mercury appeared to me likely to be efficient in this case , was by removing the oxymuriatic acid as fast as it was formed ; for I have never found any mixture of this gas in the results of experiments on muriatic acid , when carried on over quicksilver .
Upon any theory of the constitution of muriatic acid , it may be expected that when , in a mixture of that acid gas with hydrogen and oxymuriatic acid gases , the two latter come to bear a certain proportion to the former , they will be brought within the sphere of mutual agency , and will reproduce muriatic acid .
This point appears , from my experiments , to be attained , when the hydrogen and oxymuriatic acid , taken together , have the proportion to the muriatic acid , of about i to 35 .
The amount of the change , therefore , which is capable of being effected on muriatic acid gas , electrified without the contact of mercury , is limited by the reaction of the evolved hydrogen and oxymuriatic acid gases on each other , whenever they compose a certain proportion of the mixture .
This proportion being attained , we only , by continuing the electrization , work in a circle .
It may now be inquired , what is the limitation to the action of electricity on muriatic acid gas which is confined over mercury ?
In this case , it was suggested:to me by Mr. DALTON , who favoured me with his presence at most of the experiments , that the evolved hydrogen might possibly in some way prevent the eifftet from being carried beyond a certain amount .
Availing myself of this hint , I mixed 3o measures of hydrogen gas with 40o of muriatic acid gas in its ordinary state , and passed 9o0 discharges through the mixture .
It soon became evident that the addition of the hydrogen had producedi an important difference in the results of the experiment ; for the surface of the mercury , over which the gas rested , was untarnished after some hundred explosions , and was scarcely changed at the close of the process .
When the residuary gas , the volume of which remained unaltered , was analyzed , it was found to contain the same quantity of muriatic gas as at the outset , and neither more nor less hydrogen .
To explain the event of this modification of the experiment , on the old theory , we may suppose that by the action ofelectricity a particle of water is decomposed , and that the:atomn of oxygen , forcibly repelled from that of hydrogen wi-th whih it was associated , finds another atom of hydrogen uninfluenced by the electric fluid , and within the sphere of its : attraction .
With this it unites , and recomposes water .
On the theory of Sir H. DAVY , the same series of decompositions and recombinations may be assumed to take place between the oxymuriatic acid and hydrogen.* It still , however , remains to be determined , what is the source of the hydrogene gas , which , in a limited proportion , is always evolved by the electrization of muriatic acid ?
Does it result from the decomposition of water , existing as an element of the gas ; or from the disunion of the oxymuriatic acid and hydrogen , which , according to Sir H. DAVY'S view , compose muriatic acid ?
The limitation to its amount , which , it formerly appeared to me , * could only be accounted for by the complete destruction of the water contained in the gas , may now be equally well explained , on the principle which I have just pointed out .
The fact , also , that no appreciable change of bulk is produced by the electrization of the muriatic acid , when the presence of mercury is excluded , is perhaps favourable to the new theory .
For since equal measures of hydrogen and oxymuriatic acids afford muriatic acid without any condensation of Volume , no alteration of bulk should result from the disunion of those elements ; and the products should be equal measures of the same gases .
The proportions , which I obtained ( 1oo to 140 ) did not , it must be acknowledged , exactly correspond with the theory ; but the difference was not greater , than might naturally be expected from the circumstances of the experiment .
That equal measures of hydrogen and oxymuriatic acid are really evolved , appears to me to be proved by the agreement , which I have in several experiments remarked , between the hydrogen gas obtained , the same power , they are again resolved into their elements .
If this were the proper place , it might , I think , be rendered probable by several arguments , that electricity , when thus applied , acts rather by mechanical collision , than by inducing a change in the electrical states of -he elements of bodies .
and the contraction of volume in muriatic acid electrfied over mercury .
Now the latter effect of the process an be explained on no other principle than the absorption of oxymuriatic acid by the quicksilver .
When muriatic acid and oxygen gases are electrified together over mercury , a gradual diminution ensues in their bulk , * and the mercury becomes tarnished , precisely as by the contact of oxyiuriatic acid .
I have lately examined the agency of this process on a considerable quantity of the two gases confined in a vessel , into which they were admitted after exhausting it by the air-pump .
The phenomena , which ins this way of making the experiment are extremely decisive and interesting , are the production of water and of oxymuriatic acid .
The former , combining with a portion of the undecomposed muriatic acid , is deposited in drops upon the inner surface of the vessel , in the state of liquid muriatic acid .
When the stop-cock , which confine the gases , is opened under mercury , a quantity of that metal rushes in , and has its surface instantly tarnished .
Besides this test of the production of oxyW muriatic acid , its presence is rendered unequivocal ( after absorbing the undecomposed muriatic acid by a few drops of water ) , both by its smell , and by its effect in discharging the colour of litmus paper .
These results , it will be found , may be reconciled with either theory .
According to the one which has been cornm monly received , the oxygen unites with the real acid of mu .
riatic gas , which becoming oxymuriatic acid , deposits water .
On Sir H. DAVY'S view , the oxygen unites with the hydrogen of the muriatic acid , and composes water , while the oxyniuriatic acid is merely an educt .
I am not aware of any refinement of the process , by which the value of these two explanations can be compared .
Something , however , would be gained by a pre* cise determination of the proportions , in which the two gases saturate each other .
For since , on Sir H. DAVY'S theory , muriatic acid contains half its volume of hydrogen gas , two measures of which are known to be saturated by one of oxygen , it follows that muriatic acid gas should be changed into oxymuriatic by one-fourth of its bulk of oxygen .
According to GAY LussAc and THENARD , * three measures of muriatic acid should condense one of oxygen ( or only one-third their bulk ) , and should form two measures of oxymuriatic acid .
Hitherto , I have not been able to satisfy myself respecting the true proportions of oxygen and muriatic acid gases , that are capable of being united by electricity ; for though I have made several experiments with this view , they have not agreed in yielding similar results .
The condensation of a part of the undecomposed acid by the water , which is formed during the process , will , probably , indeed , always be an impediment to our learning these proportions exactly .
The fact is chiefly of value , as it affords an example of the production of oxymuriatic acid under the simplest possible circumstances ; and as it shows unequivocally that , under such circumstances , the visible appearance of moisture is a part of the phenomena .

