X. " { Researches on the Foraminifera."-Part II .
By WILLIAM B. CARPENTER , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. &amp;c. ReceivedJunel9 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) In the pursuance of his plan of minutely examining certain typical forms of Foraminifera , for the purpose of elucidating their history as living beings , and of determining the value of the characters they present to the systematist , the author in this memoir details the results of his investigations on the genera Orbiculina , Alveolina , Cycloclypeus , and Heterostegina .
The genus Orbiculina has long been known , through its prevalence in the West Indian seas , which causes its shells to abound in the shore-sands of many of the islands of that region .
These shells present great varieties of form , and have been ranked under three distinct species ; but M. d'Orbigny has correctly inferred , from a comparison of a large number of specimens , that their diversities of form are partly attributable to differences in the stage of growth , and partly to individual variation , so that all the Orbiculine of Cuba , the Antilles , &amp;c. , are referable to but one specific type .
Of the essential features of its structure , however , he would seem to be quite ignorant ; since he ranges Orbiculina in a distinct order from Orbitolites , to which it is very closely allied .
This alliance was first pointed out by Prof. Williamson , whose account of the structure of Orbiculina , though defective and erroneous in certain points , is nevertheless correct in the main .
The author has had the opportunity of examining not merely a considerable number of West Indian specimens , but also a set of specimens peculiarly remarkable for their high development , which form part of Mr. Cuming 's Philippine collection .
Many of these present the form of flattened disks , marked with concentric circles , and having one or more rows of pores at their edges , not distinguishable , save by their prominent central nuclei , from certain forms of Orbitolites formerly described .
The similarity is equally great in their internal structure ; so that , if a marginal fragment only were submitted to examination , it would not be possible to say with certainty whether it belonged to an Orbitolites or an Orbiculina .
The distinguishing character of the latter is derived from its early mode of growth , which is uniformly spiral ; and from the circumstance that each of the first three or four turns of the spire not merely surrounds , but invests its predecessor , thereby producing an excess in the thickness of the earlier over that of the later-formed portion , which gives rise to the central protuberance already mentioned .
The transition from the spiral to the cyclical mode of increase is effected ( just as it is in those individuals of Orbitolites which begin life upon the spiral type ) by the opening-out of the mouth of the spire , which extends itself on either side around the previously-formed body , until its two divisions meet on the opposite side , where they coalesce so as to constitute a complete annulus .
This transition may take place at any period of growth after the completion of the first four or five turns of the spire ; so that we sometimes meet with small specimens which have already become discoidal and taken-on the cyclical plan of growth , whilst we occasionally meet with full-grown specimens which retain the spiral form , and show no tendency whatever towards the assumption of the cyclical plan of growth .
These facts obviously point to the very subordinate value of plan of growth as a distinctive character .
The author next proceeds to a like investigation of the genus Alveolina , which he shows to bear a very marked resemblance to Orbitolites and Orbiculina , in the simple concretionary texture of the shell , in the freedom of communication everywhere existing among the chambers , in the mutual relations of these to each other , and in their mode of communication with the exterior ; whilst its plan of growth is very different , the axis round which the spiral turns being greatly elongated , and every additional whorl of the spire producing a much greater augmentation of its length than of its diameter .
There is obviously a close physiological relationship between this genus and the preceding , since the condition of each individual segment of the sarcode-body must be essentially the same in each ; and it is merely in the mode in which these segments are multiplied , -a character which we have seen not *to be constant in different parts even of the same specimens of Orbitolites and Orbiculina , -that it differs from them .
A marked contrast to Orbitolites and Orbiculina in all their physiological characters , coexisting with an agreement in their respective plans of growth , is presented by the genera Cycloclypeus and Heterostegina ; the former of which , like Orbitolites , is cyclical from the beginning , its chambers being formed in successive annuli round a central cell ; whilst the latter , like Orbiculina , is spiral in the first instance , but tends , as age advances , to assume the discoidal shape and cyclical plan of growth .
The genus Cycloclypeus is a new one , founded by the author upon specimens dredged-up by Sir E. Belcher off the coast of Borneo .
These are the largest Foraminifera at present known to exist ; the diameter of some of them being not less than 2 : inches .
The genus Heterostegina was formed by M. d'Orbigny ; but he seems only to have been acquainted with young specimens , and has altogether misapprehended its true characters and relations .
A fragment of the flattened spire of Heterostegina could scarcely be distinguished from a marginal portion of the disk of Cycloclypeus ; so close is the conformity between the two , as regards the form and relations of the chambers , their mode of communication , and the structure of their shelly envelope .
Each chamber , as in Nummulites , has its own proper wall , so that the partition between the adjacent chambers , whether of the same row or of different rows , is double ; and between its two lamellre there is interposed an additional stratum of shell that belongs to neither .
This additional stratum is thin , in the septa dividing adjacent chambers of the same row ; but it is much thicker , and forms a much more complete separation , in the septa intervening between different rows .
It is traversed by a canal-system , analogous to that existing in Nummulites ; which the author believes to be occupied in the living state by threads of sarcode , and to be specially destined for the nutrition of the 'intermediate skeleton ' formed by the aggregate of these inters posed lamellae .
The chamber is covered-in above and below by successive layers of a minutely-tubular and peculiarly-compact shellsubstance , resembling dentine in its general aspect ; certain parts of this , however , are non-tubular , and form cones , of which the bases appear on the surface as minute rounded tubercles .
The adjacent chambers of the same row do nbt seem to communicate with each other ; but each chamber communicates with two chambers of the previously-formed row , and , in like marnner , with two of the subsequently-formed row , by narrow passages , the number and position of which are by no means constant .
These passages seem to afford the principal means whereby the segments of the sarcode-body occupying the inner chambers , can be nourished from the exterior ; but it is by no means impossible that the tubuli of the shelly laminse that invest the chambers above and below , may also be subservient to this purpose , since , however numerous may be the laminae , the tubuli are continued through them all from the cavity of the chamber to the external surface .
The almost entire separation of the segments of the sarcode-body in these two genera , the investment of each of them with its own proper envelope of shell , the minutely-tubular structure and firm consistence of the shell-substance , and the interposition of the intermediate skeleton with its canal-system , are features that place them in such marked contrast with Orbitolites and Orbiculina , that , notwithstanding their conformity to those two genera in their respective plans of growth , it is scarcely possible for them to be more widely removed in everything that relates to their respective physiological conditions .
From a comparison of the five genera whose structure has been thus elucidated , the author deduces the conclusion that , in this class , external form , which depends exclusively on plan of growth , affords no clue whatever to internal structure ; and that the latter alone , as the exponent of the physiological condition of the animal , can afford the basis of a natural classification .

