141 February 25 , 1858 .
WILLIAM R. GROVE , Esq. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
Charles Piazzi Smyth , Esq. , was admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read : I. " Remlarks on the interior Melting of Ice .
" By Professor WILLIAM THOMSON , F.R.S. In a Letter to Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S Received January 23 , 1858 .
In the Number of the 'Proceedings ' just published , which I received yesterday , I see some very interesting experiments described in a communication by Dr. Tyndall , " On some Physical Properties of Ice .
" I write to you to point out that they afford direct ocular evidence of my brother 's theory of the plasticity of ice , published in the " Proceedings ' of the 7th of May last ; and to add , on my own part , a physical explanation of the blue veins in glaciers , and of the lamellar structure which Dr. Tyndall has shown to be induced in ice by pressure , as described in the sixth section of his paper .
Thus , my brother , in his paper of last May , says , " If we commence with the consideration of a mass of ice perfectly free from porosity , and free from liquid particles diffused through its substance , and if we suppose it to be kept in an atmosphere at or above 0 ?
Cent. , then , as soon as pressure is applied to it , pores occupied by liquid water must instantly be formed in the compressed parts , in accordance with the fundamental principle of the explanation I have propounded the lowering , namely , of the freezing-point or meltingpoint , by pressure , and the fact that ice cannot exist at 0 ?
Cent. under a pressure exceeding that of the atmosphere .
" Dr. Tyndall finds that when a cylinder of ice is placed between two slabs of box-wood , and subjected to gradually increasing pressure , a dim cloudy appearance is observed , which he finds is due to the melting of small portions of the ice in the interior of the mass .
The permeation into portions of the ice for a time clear " by the water squeezed against it from such parts as may be directly subjected to the pressure , " theoretically demonstrated by my brother , is'beautifully illustrated by 142 Dr. Tyndall 's statement , that " the hazy surfaces produced by the compression of the mass were observed to be in a state of intense commotion , which followed closely upon the edge of the surface as it advanced through the solid .
It is finally shown that these surfaces are due to the liquefaction of the ice in planes perpendicular to the pressure .
" There can be no doubt but that the " oscillations " in the meltingpoint of ice , and the distinction between strong and weak pieces in this respect , described by Dr. Tyndall in the second section of his paper , are consequences of the varying pressures which different portions of a mass of ice must experience when portions within it become liquefied .
The elevation of the melting temperature which my brother 's theory shows must be produced by diminishing the pressure of ice below the atmospheric pressure , and to which I alluded as a subject for experimental illustration , in the article describing my experimental demonstration of the lowering effect of pressure ( Proceedings , Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
Feb. 1850 ) , demonstrates that a vesicle of water cannot form in the interior of a solid of ice except at a temperature higher than 0 ?
Cent. This is a conclusion which Dr. Tyndall expresses as a result of mechanical considerations : thus , " Regarding heat as a mode of motion , " " liberty of liquidity is attained by the molecules at the surface of a mass of ice before the molecules at the centre of the mass can attain this liberty .
" The physical theory shows that a removal of the atmospheric pressure would raise the melting-point of ice by 3-oths of a degree Centigrade .
Hence it is certain that the interior of a solid of ice , heated by the condensation of solar rays by a lens , will rise to at least that excess of temperature above the superficial parts .
It appears very nearly certain that cohesion will prevent the evolution of a bubble of vapour of water in a vesicle of water forming by this process in the interior of a mass of ice , until a high " negative pressure " has been reached , that is to say , until cohesion has been called largely into operation , especially if the water and ice contain little or no air by absorption ( just as water freed from air may be raised considerably above its boiling-point under any non.evanescent hydrostatic pressure ) .
Hence it appears nearly certain that the interior of a block of ice originally clear , and made to possess vesicles of water by 143 the concentration of radiant heat , as in the beautiful experiments described by Dr. Tyndall in the commencement of his paper , will rise very considerably in temperature , while the vesicles enlarge under the continued influence of the heat received by radiation through the cooler enveloping ice and through the fluid medium ( air and a watery film , or water ) touching it all round , which is necessarily at 0 ?
Cent. where it touches the solid .
I find I have not time to execute my intention of sending you today a physical explanation of the blue veins of glaciers which occurred to me last May , but I hope to be able to send it in a short time .
WILLIAM THOMSON .
Jan. 21 , 1858 .
11 .
" On the Practical Use of the Aneroid Barometer as an Orometer .
" By Captain W. S. MOORSOM , Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers .
Communicated by P. W , BARLOW , Esq. Received January 28 , 1858 .
A Government Commission to Ceylon in the beginning of 1857 , led the author , as Chief Engineer in charge of the Expedition , to provide ( among other instruments ) some aneroids , as a means of saving time in ascertaining the levels of the mountain passes of that Island .
The aneroids offered by makers did not appear sufficiently graduated to admit of minute observation , and at the author 's suggestion Messrs. Elliott furnished a more complete vernier , which , however , was shown to be susceptible of material improvement .
With these comparatively imperfect instruments , it was shown that an elevation of 950 feet may be taken to correspond with the fall through the first inch of the aneroid ; that about 970 feet more corresponds with the fall through the second inch , and about 1000 feet corresponds with the fall through the third inch .
These altitudes having been checked by levels taken with the ordinary surveyor 's spirit-level , it was shown that this experience corresponds with the Tables published by M. Bellville , within 1 per cent. The thermometer , which is usually attached to the aneroid , is not a necessary adjunct , but is frequently useful , and always interesting .
The compensations introduced to provide against variations of tempe

