XiII .
On Cystic Oxide , a new species of Urinary Calculus .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R. S. Read July 5 , i8io .
THE principal design of the present essay is to make known the existence , and to describe the leading properties of a new species of urinary calculus from the human bladder ; but I shall at the same time take the opportunity of correcting an inaccuracy or two that I have observed in my former communication on this subject .
( Phil. Trans. 1797 .
) I , on that occasion , took notice of five kinds of urinary calculi , 1 .
The lithic acid , since called uric acid , originally analysed by SCHEELE .
s. The oxalate of lime , or mulberry calculus .
S. The phosphate of lime , or bone-earth calculus .
4 .
The ammoniacal phosphate of magnesia .
5 .
The fusible calculus , which consists of the two last species combined .
It is now about five years since I first met with another species , evidently differing from each of those before described .
It was in the possession of Dr. REEVE of Norwich , who obligingly gave me a portion of it for the purpose of examin1 ing its chemical qualities .
It had been taken from his brother when he was five years old , and at that time was covered with a coating of phosphate of lime very loose in its textir Gg and consequently very soon separated.* This species is probably very rare ; for , although I have omitted no opportunity of paying attention to any urinary concretions to which I could have access , I have , to this time , seen only one other specimen of the same substance .
This last is in a collection of calculi belonging to GuY 's Hospital , given by Mr. LUCAS , surgeon to that Institution , having been formed partly by his father , and partly by himself , in the course of their practise ; and according to the present arrangement , ( which , it is to be hoped , will not be altered ) the calculus to which I allude may be found by reference to NTo .
46 of that collection .
It was extracted by the usual operation , from a man 36 years of age , of whom no record is preserved , except that his name was WILLIAM SMALL .
It weighed , when entire , 270 grains .
In appearance , these calculi resemble more nearly the triple phosphate of magnesia , than any other calculus ; but they are more compact than that compound is usually found to be : not consisting of distinct laminae , but appearing as one mass confusedly crystallized throughout its substance .
Hence , instead of having the opacity and whiteness observable in fusible calculi , which consist of a number of small crystals cemented together , these calculi have a yellowish semi-transparency ; and they have also a peculiar glistening lustre , like that of a body having a high refractive density .
Wbhen this substance is submitted to destructive distillation , eI am informed , that another stone formed afterwards in the bladder of this boy , and that he died in consequence , without submitting to the operation a second time .
The stone found in his bladder after death , consisted principally of uric acid , but vas peculiar in one respect , as its center was hollow by the removal of some more ; oluble substance , of which the nucleus had consisted .
g 4 it yields foetid carbonate of ammonia , partly fluid , and partly in a solid state , and a heavy foetid oil , such as usually proceeds from animal substances ; and there remains a black spongy coal , much smaller in proportion than is found after the distillation of uric calculi .
Under the blow-pipe it may be distinguished from uric acid by the smell , which at no period resembles that of prussic acid ; but in addition to the usual smell of burned animal substances , there is a peculiar foetor , of which I cannot give a correct idea , as I know no smell which it can be said to resemble .
This species of calculus is so readily acted upon by the generality of common chemical agents , that its character may perhaps be most dihtinctly marked , by an enumeration of those feeble powers that it can resist .
It is not dissolved ( excepting in very small proportion ) by water , by alcohol , by acetic acid , by tartaric acid , by citric acid , or by saturated carbonate of ammonia .
The solvents on the contrary , are far more numerous .
It is dissolved , in considerable quantity , by muriatic acid , by nitric acid , by sulphuric acid , by phosphoric acid , and by oxalic acid .
It is also dissolved readily by pure alkaline menstrua : by potash , by soda , by ammonia , and by lime water .
It is even dissolved by fully saturated carbonates of potash or of soda .
Accordingly , these alkalies are not so convenient for the precipitation of this matter from acid solutions , as the carbonate of ammonia , which is not capable of redissolving the precipitate , though added in excess .
For a similar reason , the acids best suited for its precipitation from alkaline solutions , are the acet and citric acids .
But the tartaric acid may occasion an appearance of precipitation , by forming a supertartrate with the alkali employed .
The combination of thius substance with acids , may be made to crystallize without diffculty , and they form slender spicula radiating from a center , which readily dissolve again in water , unless they have been injured by being in any degree overheated .
The muriatic salt is decomposed by the heat of boiling water , on account of the volatility of the acid , and the rest are easily destroyed by a greater excess of heat .
The salt formed by combination with nitric acid , does not yield oxalic acid , and does not become red , as the uric acid does , when similarly treated ; but it turns brown , becoming gradually darker , till it is ultimately black .
When the combinations with alkalies are evaporated , they leave small granular crystals ; but as I was desirous of rendering my experiments as numerous as a limited quantity would permit , the portion which I could employ in any one experiment was too small for me to attempt to determine the form of such crystals .
When a hot solution in potash was neutralized by distilled vinegar , the precipitate did not immediately take place , but formed gradually during the cooling of the liquor in minute crystals , some at the surface of the fluid , and others attached to the sides of the vessel .
The only definite form which I could observe , was that of flat hexagonal plates , but I could discern nothing which enabled me to judge of the primitive form of the crystal .
On the surface of the calculus belonging to Guy 's Hospital , some minute crystals may be discerned , of a different shape , being nearly cubic .
Anid it is possible , that the hexagonal crystals may owe their figure to a small portion of alkali remaining in combination .
From the ready disposition of this substance to unite with both acids and alkalies , it would appear to be an oxide ; and that it does , in fact , contain oxygen , is proved by the formation of carbonic acid in distillation .
The quantity of oxygen present in the calculus is not , however , sufficient to give it acid properties , for it has no effect on paper coloured with litmus .
I am therefore inclined to consider it as an oxide ; and since both the calculi that have yet been observed have been taken from the bladder , it may be convenient to give it the name of cystic oxide , which will serve to distinguish it from other calculi ; and as this is unlike any other term at present employed in chemistry , it is to be hoped that it will not be thought to require any alteration .
Since the period of my first essay on gouty and urinary concretions , the general results contained in it have been confirmed by others , and I believe are incontrovertible .
But I am under the necessity of acknowledging a mistake in the analysis of the mulberry calculus , though not of much importance .
An acid is mentioned to have arisen by sublimation , and it was supposed to originate from a partial decomposition of the oxalic acid .
But since pure oxalate of lime yields no such sublimate , it most probably arose from the mixture of a small quantity of uric acid in the calculus then under examination .
In the analysis of the triple phosphate of magnesia , there is another mistake of more consequence .
In my selection 27 from numerous experiments for ascertaining the presence of phosphoric acid , I gave the preference to one in which nitrate of mercury was employed , on account of the facility of extracting the acid from the phosphate of mercury , by heat alone .
But since the whole of the phosphoric acid is not precipitated by nitrate of mercury , sulphate of magnesia will not be formed on the addition of sulphuric acid , and the magnesia cannot be obtained separate by the same process .
It may have been in consequence of this over-sight , that a mistake on that subject has occurred in the succeeding volume of the Transactions .
A calculus is there described , which had been taken by Mr. THOMAS from the bladder of a dog , and a series of experiments are related , from which it was inferred to consist of super-phosphate of lime , and phosphate of ammonia .
But from the appearance of this calculus ( which was exhibited to the Society at the time when the paper was read ) I was much inclined to think , that the nature of it was mistaken , and upon full consideration of the experiments , they did not appear to me conclusive .
I therefore obtained a portion of the calculus , and by the following process , the earth contained in it was proved to consist almost wholly of magnesia .
It was dissolved , with the exception of a very small residuum , by distilled vinegar .
The whole of the phosphoric acid was then precipitated by acetate of lead , added to excess .
The liquor was then poured off , and sulphuric acid was added , which precipitated the excess of lead , and at the same time formed sulphate of magnesia in solution .
aaBy evaporation to dryness , the acetic acid was removed , and by subsequent increase of heat , the sulphate of ammonia , and excess of sulphuric acid were expelled .
The residuum being then dissolved in water , and the liquor suffered to crystallize by spontaneous evaporation , there remained a quantity of sulphate of magnesia , that weighed rather more than the quantity of calculus taken for the experiment .
It was evident , therefore , that in this instance , the calculus examined did not consist of super-phosphate of lime , and there is some reason to doubt , whether a compound , that is so very soluble in water , ever forms a part of urinary concretions .
Although the treatment of diseases is not in general , a fit subject to occupy the time of this Society , there is nevertheless .
one suggestion , with respect to the prevention of calculous complaints , so nearly connected with my present subject , that I think it may deserve to be recorded .
Since the white matter contained in the urine of birds , which is voided along with their dung , has been remarked by M. VAUQUELIN , to consist principally of uric acid , I have paid some attention to the different proportion in which this matter is voided by different species of birds , to see how far it accorded with the different qualities of their food .
And I found that in the dung of the goose , feeding wholly on grass , the proportion did not seem so much as v , of the whole dung .
In that of a pheasant kept in a cage , and fed on barley alone , it was about -T part .
In that of a hen , having the range of a garden and farm yard , and consequently procuring insects , and possibly other animal food , the proportion was manifestly much greater , and combined with lime .
Ia the dung of a hawk , fed upon flesh alone , the quantity of matter voided in a solid state bears but a small proportion to the residuum of uric acid , that is left by the urine when dry .
And in the gannet feeding solely on fish , I have observed the evacuations in some instances to be mere urine , for it contained no solid matter , excepting the uric acid .
It seems consequently , deserving of inquiry , what changes might be produced in the urine of any one animal , by such alterations of diet , as its constitution would permit ; for as far as any inference can be drawn from these varieties , which naturally occur , it would appear , that persons subject to calculi , consisting of uric acid , as well as gouty persons , in whom there is always a redundance of the same matter , have much reason to prefer vegetable diet , but that the preference usually given to fish above other kinds of animal food , is probably erroneous .

