Experiments on the Quantity of Gases absorbed by Water , at difterent Temperatures , and under different Pressures .
By Mr. William Henry .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read December 23 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 29 .
] After a short recapitulation of what has of late been done by Mr. Cavendish , Dr. Priestley , Dr. Nooth , and others , respecting the impregnation of water with different gases , our author observes , that the circumstance of the different degrees of temperature and pressure had not been as yet sufficiently attended to .
Dr. Priestley , indeed , had long since remarked , that , in an exhausted receiver , Pyrmont water will actually boil at a common temperature , by the copious discharge of its air ; and that hence it is very probable , that by means of a condensing engine , water might be much more highly impregnated with the virtues of the Pyrmont spring : but this conjecture remained as yet to be proved by experiments ; and this is the task our author has undertaken in the -present paper .
This paper consists of two sections ; the first treating of the quantities of gases absorbed by water under the usual pressure of the atmosphere ; and the second , of the influence of pressure in promoting the absorption of gases .
The apparatus contrived for these experiments may be described as a siphon , of which one side , or leg , is a glass vessel of comparatively a considerable diameter , and the other a long glass tube of about a quarter of an inch bore ; the junction of these two parts at the bottom being a short pipe of India rubber , well secured by proper integuments of leather , thus forming a joint , which admits of the vessel being briskly agitated .
This vessel has a stop-cock both at top and bottom , in order to insert and emit fluids and gases ; and both the vessel and tube are accurately graduated .
It may now be understood , that a known quantity of water and of a certain gas being put in the vessel , and the tube being filled to a certain extent with mercury , the absorption of the gas will be accurately measured by the column of mercury in the tube .
Those who are particularly interested in this inquiry will find in the paper various precautions and additional contrivances , all tending to insure the success and accuracy of the investigation .
The first experiments were made on the absorption of carbonic acid gas by water : and here a singular disagreement was observed in the first trials made under exactly the same circumstances .
It soon occurred that this might be owing to the variable amount of the residua of the gas , after the absorption ; and this was actually confirmed by the observation , that , of a greater quantity of gas , more would be absorbed than of a smaller , though both quantities were sufficient for saturation of equal quantities of water .
This was found to be owing to the quantity of common air , which will ever be extricated from the water , though it be ever so pure , and which will form a greater proportion of the smaller than of the greater dose of the residuary gas .
A table of nine experiments is next given , in which are entered the temperature , the quantities of water and gas , the quantities of gas absorbed , the residua , and the quantities absorbed by 100 inches of water .
The two extreme results are , that , at the temperature of 550 , 13 measures of water , exposed to 32 measures of gas , absorbed 14 measures , leaving a residuum of 18 measures ; so that the absorption of 100 measures of water would be 108 measures of gas .
In the temperature of 1100 , 20 measures of water , exposed to 20 measures of gas , absorbed 9 and left 11 ; so that 45 in 100 was the total of the absorption .
A series of experiments on other less absorbable gases have afforded for one temperature , viz. 600 , and in 100 cubic inches of water , the following results:-nitrous gas 5 inches , oxygenous gas 2-63 , phosphorated hydrogen gas 2-14 , azotic gas 1 20 , and hydrogen gas 1 08 .
Some experiments are next described on the quantity of atmospherical air that may be extricated from water ; the general result of which is , that 100 cubic inches of common spring water will yield 4-76 of gas ; which , being analysed , was found to consist of 3*38 carbonic acid , and 1 38 atmospherical air .
The object of the second section being to ascertain the ratio between the addition of pressure and the increased absorption of gases by water , Mr. Henry made some alteration in his apparatus , which consisted chiefly in lengthening the tube , so that , by the addition of mercury , any required addition of pressure might be obtained oin the water and gases .
The results of a series of at least fifty experiments on a variety of gases were , that under equal circumstances of temperature , water takes up , in all cases , the same volume of condensed gas as of gas under ordinary pressure ; but that as the spaces occupied by every gas are inversely as the compressing force , it follows that water takes up of gas , condensed by one , two , or three additional atmospheres , a quantity which , ordinarily compressed , would be equal to twice , thrice , &amp;c. the volume absorbed under the common pressure of the atmosphere .

