XXVI .
Expieriments on Ammonia , and an Account of a.new Method of Ainalyzing it , by Combustion with Oxygen and other Gases ; in a Letter to Hlumphry Davy , Esq. Sec. .
S &amp;c. from William Henry , M D. , F. R. S. V. P. of the Lit. and Phil. Society , and Physician to the Infirmary , at Manchester.* M , DEAR SIR , I SHOULD sooner have communicated the account , which yowu are so good as to request , of my further experiments on the decomposition of ammonia , if I had not been anxious to obtain , by frequent and careful repetition of them , results not affected by any of those numerous causes of error , which easily insinuate themselves into processes of so much delicacy .
You have already been informed that the fact , which I lately mentioned to you , ( tending to prove the existence of oxygen as an element of the volatile alkali , by the discovery of oxygen gas in the products of its analysis ) is not entitled to confidence , owing to the admission of a small quantity of atmospherical air , in a way which was not at all suspected .
Frequent repetitions of the same process , under circumstances wholly unobjectionable , have fully satisfied me , that no portion whatsoever of oxygen gas is evolved by electricity from ammonia , even when , by means of an apparatus constructed for the purpose , the only metallic surface , exposed to the gas , consists of the sections of two platina wires , each ~s of an inch in diameter , the wires themselves being enclosed in glass tubes , which are sealed hermetically round them , and then ground away , so as to expose only the points , Nor does any difference in the nature of the products arise from electrifying the gas either under increased or diminished pressure , the latter of which , it appeared to me probable , from the known influence of elasticity in impeding the combination of gaseous bases , might prevent the oxygen of the alkali from uniting with hydrogen to form water , and occasion the expansion of both Into the state of gas .
Having failed , therefore , to acquire , in this way , proof of the existence of oxygen in the volatile alkali , I was next led to seek for some unequivocal.mode of evincing the production of water by the same operation ; a fat , which would he scarcely less satisfactory in establishing oxygen to be one of its constituents , :than the actual separation of oxygen gas .
The most careful observation of ammonia , during and after the agency of electricity , does not discover the smallest perceptible quantity of moisture .
In order , therefore , to subject:the gas to a satisfactory test , I had recoure to the following con trivance .
Ammoniacal gas , I had previously found , may b so far desiccated by exposure to caustic potash , as to show no traces of condensed moisture , on the inner surface of a , thin glass vessel containing it , when exposed to a cold of o0 FAaRENHEIT ; though the recent gas , by the same treatment , is made to deposit water in the state of a thin film of ice .
A glass globe , of the capacity of between two and three cubical inches , was filled with gaseaos armania , J whih was the gK dried by sticks of pure potash , fastened to pieces of steel wire , so that they could be withdrawn , after having exerted their full action .
This point of dryness was ascertained by applying axther , or a mixture of snow and salt , to the outsideof the globe. .
By means of a peculiar apparatus , the gas was next strongly electrified , and the cooling power was again applied to the outer surface of the globe .
In the first trials , that were made with this apparatus , water certainly seemed to have been formed by the electrization of the alkaline gas ; for the same portion of gas , which was not affected by a freezing mixture before the process , gave evident signs of condensed moisture , when the cooling power was applied after long continued electrization .
The appearance was not only quite satisfactory to myself , but to Mr. DALTON , and several other chemical friends , to whom I showed the experiment .
Finding , however , that the appearance varied as to its degree , I was induced to repeat the process with redoubled precaution ; filling the globe , previously heated , with hot mercury , and drying not only the quicksilver , but the iron cistern which contained it , by exposure to long continued heat .
The electrified gas now betrayed no signs of moisture on the application of a temperature 2o of FAHRENHEIT ; and gave only the smallest perceptible traces , by a cold of o ?
or a few degrees below .
I cannot help suspecting , therefore , that the moisture , manifested in the earlier experiments , was derived from the mercury or from some extraneous source , and was not generated by the action of electricity.* ' It may be objected , I am aware , that as the gases produced from ammonia are uearly double.its ; original bulk , they nay hold in combination any water that may The avidity with which ammonia retains moisture , and again absorbs it when artificially dried , is very remarkable .
A confined quantity of common air may be completely desiccated , in the space of a few minutes , by pure potash , or by muriate of lime ; so that no ice shall appear in the inner surface of the containingvessel , when exposed to a cold of-26 ?
of FAHRENHEIT .
But ammonia requires exposure during some hours to potash , to stand the test even of o ?
FAHRENHEIT ; and a single transfer of the dried gas , through the mercury of a trough in ordinary use , again communicates moisture to it .
Muriatic acid gas , freed merely from visible moisture , deposits no water at the temperature of s6 ?
FAHRENHEIT .
This is probably owing to its strong affinity for water ; for electricity , after the full action of muriate of lime , evolves , as I have lately ascertained , about t1-th its bulk of hydrogen gas , the recent muriatic acid gas giving about y , th after the same treatment , * have been generated by electricity .
But though this supposition may explain the nonappearance of visible moisture , it does not account for the inefficiency of a powerful cooling cause to discover traces of watery vapour : for this is a test , which renders apparent very minute quantities of water in gases .
From the average of a great number of experiments on the decomposition of ammonia by electricity , I was for sometime led to believe , that you had rather under-stated the proportion of permanent gases obtainable from it by this process , ( viz. 1o8 measures of permanent gas , from 60 of ammonia or 18o from loo .
) -For the most part , I had found the bulk of ammonia to be doubled by decomposition , even when the gas was previously dried with extreme care .
In one instance , a small bit of dry potash was left in the tube , along with the ammonia , during electrization , with the viewz of its -absorbing ater , which I supposed , at that time , to be generated by the process .
In this case , 59 measures:(each -o grains of mercury ) became 115 .
The following table -shews the expansion of various quantities of ammonia .
Exp. i. 60 measures of ammonia , gave permanent gas ii 2 .
6o..120 3 .
59 ( potash being left in the tube ) 115 4$ .
535 , 115 5 .
75 ( under the pressure:of half an atmosphere ) 15o 6 665 1g77 7 .
6 3o 8 .
53 ( one of the conductors being of steel wire ) 16 492 978 and 492 : , 978 : 10oo0 198,78 .
These proportions , you will find , correspond very nearly with those long ago stated the alkaline gas , even when the gas has been previously exposed to quick-lime .
In this case , the ammonia attracts a portion of muriatic acid from the earthy salt , ' agreeably to the law of affinity , which has been so ably illustrated by BERTHOLLET .
by BRntETLr i , * ' who converted 17 measures of mmonia by electrization , into a measures of permanen gas , Whieh is at the rate of 194 from ooo .
Having lately , however , carried on the process with the observance of additional ptecauton , ( the mercury being first boiled in the tue , before admitting : the aimonia , and still remaining hot when the gas was passed tp ) , I have obtained from the alkali less than double its volume of permanent gas , viz. 280 measures from 55 , orat the rate of io,6 from ioo , The variableness of the first set of results arises , I believe , from the uncertainty of the quantity of aimiornia decomposed .
For if the smallest portion of moisture remain in the tube , a little ammoniacal gas will be absorbed , and will be slowly given out again as the electrization goes on , thus rendering the actual quantity submitted to experiment greater than appears .
It is probable , also , from a fat which I shall afterwards state , that mercury itself , unless when heated , may absorb a small portion of alkaline gas .
The proportion of the hydrogen and nitrogen gases to each other in the products of ammonia decomposed by electricity , I am satisfied , by recent experiments ( June , 18o9 ) is as nearly as possible what you have determined , viz. 74 measures of hydrogen gas to 26 of nitrogen .
The nearest approximation I have made to these numbers is 73,75 to 26je5 , Our only method of analyzing mixtures of these two gases , ( viz , by combustion with a redundancy of oxygen ) is not , believe , sufficiently perfect to afford a nearer coincidence .
The extreme labour and , tediousness of the decomposition of ammonia by electricity , influenced me to attempt the discovery of a shorter and more summary method of analysis .
The .
Journal de Physique , 1786 , ii .
76 : .
most obvious one , was its decomposition by oxymuriatic aid gas ; but this plan was abandoned , from the impossibility of confining both the gases by any one fluid ; since water acts powerfully on the one , and mercury on the other .
But a mixture of oxygen and ammoniacal gases more than answered my expectations .
When mingled in proper proportions , these gases , I have ascertained , may be detonated over mercury by an electric spark ; exactly like a mixture of vital and inflammable air ; and the results of the process , with due attention to the circumstances , which will soon be stated , afford an easy and precise method of analyzing , in the space of a few minutes , considerable quantities of the volatile alkali .
With a greater proportion of pure oxygen gas* to ammonia than that of three to one , or of ammonia to oxygen than that of three to 1.4 , the mixture ceases to be combustible .
When the proportions best adapted to inflammation are used , oxygen gas may be diluted with six times its bulk of atmospherical air , without losing its property of burning ammonia .
Atmospherical air alone does not , however , inflame with ammonia , in any proportion that I have yet tried ; though , by long continued electrization with air , ammonia is at length decomposed ; its hydrogen uniting with the oxygen of the air and forming water , while the nitrogen of both composes a permanent residuum .
Forty-five measures of ammonia being electrified with eighty-six of common air , the total 131 became 136 , and 132 after being washed with water .
Of 17.2 measures of oxygen , contained in the 86 measures of air at , the outset , only 2.9 were left , and these , also , would probably have disappeared by continuing the operation .
If a mix* Containing only three or four per cent. nitrogen gas .
ture of ammonia and atmospheric air , each previously dried by caustic potash and then electrified , be examined , the production of water is made sufficiently apparent on applying ether to the containing vessel .
In subjecting ammonia , therefore , to this test of the generation of water by electricity , the purity of the gas from atmospheric air should be carefully determined.* The products of the combustion of ammonia with oxygen vary essentially , according to the proportion of the gases which are employed .
If the oxygen gas exceed considerably the ammonia ( that is , if its volume be double or upwards ) the ammonia entirely disappears ; and no gases remain , but a mixture of nitrogen with the redundant oxygen .
The moment the detonation is completed , a dense cloud appears , t and soon afterwards settles into a white incrustation on the inner surface of the tube .
The quantity of this substance , which is produced , is too minute for analysis ; but its characters resemble those of nitrate of ammonia , the acid ingredient of which is probably generated by the action of oxygen on the nitrogen of one part of the volatile alkali .
Accordingly , when the excess of oxygen is removed by sulphuret of lime , the nitrogen generally falls short of the proportion , which ought to accrue from a given weight of ammonia ; and hence it is scarcely possible to attain , when a considerable excess of oxygen is used , an accurate analysis of the volatile alkali .
When , on : the contrary , the ammonia exceeds considerably the oxygen gas , no production of nitrous acid appears to take place ; for the residue , after detonation , is quite free from cloudiness .
It is remarkable , however , that ammonia when fired , in certain proportions , with less oxygen than is required to saturate ts combustible ingredient , is nevertheless completely diecomposed .
Part of its hydrogen is sufficient for the saturation of the oxygen ; and the remaining hydrogen , and the whole nitrogen of the ammonia , together with that existing as an impurity in the oxygen employed , remain in a gaseous state , and compose a mixture , which may be inflamed by adding a second quantity of oxygen gas , and passing an electric spark.* In this way all the hydrogen of the volatile alkali may be saturated with oxygen , and condensed into water ; and the whole of the nitrogen may be obtained as a final result of the process .
After determining the amount of the oxygen , consumed both in the first and second combustions , it is easy to calculate the quantity of hydrogen , in the saturation of which it has been employed ; for when no nitrous acid has been formed , the hydrogen will be , pretty exactly , double in volume the oxygene which has been expended .
These general observatins will tend to render the following experiments more intelligible .
They may be divided into two classes , 'st , those in which ammonia was fired with an excessive proportion of oxygen ; and 2dly , those in which the oxygen , used in the first combustion , was insufficient , or barely adequate , to saturate the whole hydrogen of the alkali .
I. Decomposition of Ammonia by an Excess of oxygen Gas .
Twenty-two measures and a third of ammonia were mixed with 44 oxygen containing 43 of pure gas .
The total 67 became 34 when exploded .
Water did not produce any farther diminution , but sulphuret of lime left only 8 measures .
Now , 3 --8:= 26 shows the quantity of oxygen gas , which escaped condensation ; and this , deducted from the original quantity ( 43 ) gives 17 measures for the amount of the oxygen expended .
The last number 17 , being multiplied by 2 , gives 3 for the hydrogen apparently consumed .
The final residue 8.66 ( the nitrogen introduced by the oxygen gas ) = 6.34 is the nitrogen obtained from 22s of ammonia ; and if to this the hydrogen be added , 44.34 measures of permanent gas will be the total result .
Hence 0oo measures of the gas producible from ammonia , should contain 84.,9 hydrogen and 15.71 nitrogen ; n umbers too remote from those , which have been already assigned , to be considered even as approximations to the truth .
The error arises from the combination of oxygen , during combustion , not only with the hydrogen , but with the nitrogen of the alkali , the latter of which consequently appears deficient , and the former proportionably in excess .
$ L. Frequent repetitions of this combustion , with a considerable excess of oxygen gas , continued to give a deficient proportion of nitrogen ; and as no accurate conclusions can be drawn from experiments of this kind , I shall proceed to those of the second class .
II .
Experiments , in which 4mmonia was fired with a deicient Proportion of oxygen Gas .
Sixty-three measures of ammonia were exploded over mercury with g3 of oxygen gas containing one of nitrogen .
The total 96 , when fired by an electric spark , were diminished to 57 measures , which were not contracted ally farther by successive agitation with water , and with sulphuret of lime .
The whole of the ammonia , therefore , was decomposed ; and all the oxygen had entered into combination with the hydrogen of the alkali .
The residuary 57 measures were mingled with 4o measures of the same oxygen gas , and detonated by an electric spark ; after which the total , 97 , were reduced to 60 .
The diminution , therefore , was 37 measures ; and as two thirds of this number may be ascribed to the condensation of hydrogen gas , the residuary 57 must have been composed of 24.66 hydrogen , and 32.34 nitrogen .
The oxygen expended , also , was 32 in the first combustion , +12 .
3 in the second =44.3 , ; and this number , being doubled , gives 88.66 for the whole hydrogen saturated , supposing it to be in the state of hydrogen gas .
But from the above quantity of nitrogene ( 32.34 measures ) we are to deduct one measure , with which the g3 measures of oxygen were contaminated ; and the remainder g1.34 shows the number of measures of nitrogen , resulting from 63 measures of ammonia .
The total amount of gases obtained is 31.'4 + 88.66 = 120 ; and the proportion of the hydrogen by volume to that of the nitrogen , as 73.88 to 26.1 .
To avoid the tediousness of similar details , I shall state , in the form of a table , the results of a few experiments out of a number of others , all of which had , as nearly as could be expected , the same tendency .
The sixth experiment in the table is the one which has been just described .
; :tlence ioo Meas .
Permanent Gas Meas .
of Meas .
of Meas .
of Meas .
of of Ammonia .
contains in ioo ~No .
of Ammon .
' Oxygen Hydr(geni Nitrogen -Measures , Exp decomsaturated .
estimated , obtained .
Take Give -:t I posed .
Oxygen .
Gas .
Hydr .
Nitr .
17 72 * 47-5 95 87 66 183 79 fI 2 95 ; 64 i 128 46 67.5 18$3.3 73.5^ 26-5 3 oo 72.2 14i4 45 72.2 198.5 72.8 28.2o 4 74 51-7 1034 37 698 i89 73.6 27 .
54 49 337 .
687674 8 o.2 72.7 27.3 L6 63.43 .
88.6 , 3 .
70.3 t193.5 73.9 : 26 .
l 44-3. .
13 73 93r From an attentive examination of the foregoing table , it will appear that the results are not perfectly uniform , though perhaps as much as can be expected from the nature of the experiments .
Thus the proportion of permanent gases to the ammonia decomposed ( the nitrogen being actually measured , and the hydrogen estimated by doubling the oxygen expended ) may be observed to differ considerably ; the highest product being 198- , and the lowest 180.2 , from ioo of ammonia .
44i There can scarcely be a doubt , however , that this want of coincidence is owing to the same cause , as that which I have already assigned for the variable proportions of permanent gas , which are obtained from equal quantities of ammonia by electrization .
And , accordingly , I have found that the evolved gases , as ascertained by combustion , bear the smallest proportion to the ammonia , when most pains have been taken to obviate the presence of moisture .
The lowest number , therefore , is to be assumed as most correct ; but other circumstances being considered , I believe the second experiment furnishes the most accurate data for determining the composition of ammonia .
The same explanation will apply to the different proportions of oxygen gas required for the saturation of ioo measures of ammonia , the variation no doubt arising from the uncertainty of the quantity of alkaline gas which is actually burned .
The proportion of oxygen to ammonia , which I believe to be nearest the truth , and most precisely necessary for mutual saturation , is that resulting from the second experiment , viz. 67measures of oxygen gas to loo of ammonia , or 1oo of the former to 148 of the latter .
It may be observed , also , by comparing the numbers in the two last columns of the table , that the hydrogen and nitrogen gases do not uniformly bear the same proportions to:each other .
Notwithstanding all the labour I have bestowed on the subject , I have not been able to obtain a nearer correspondence , owing most probably to the imperfection of the mode of analyzing a mixture of hydrogen and nitrogen gases .
In the mixture of permanent gases , determined in this way , the hydrogen , it may be remarked , bears generally rather a less ratio than that of 74 to 26 .
I do not , however , consider this fact as contradicting the accuracy of the proportions which you have assigned ; and it appears to me that a sufficient reason may be given for the want of a more perfect coincidence between results , obtained by such different methods of investigation .
In the products of the electrization of ammonia , the hydrogen composes nearly three-fourths of the mixture ; and hence its combustion by oxygen gas is likely to be completely efected , and the whole of the hydrogen condensed into water .
But after the partial combustion of am .
monia , by oxygen gas , a residuum is left of hydrogen and : nitrogen gases , of which the , hydrogen , usually composes lesSy and : somietiimes considerably less , than one half the bulk .
In this case , it may be suspected that a small quantity of hydrogen occasionally escapes being burned ; and whenever this happens , its proportion to the nitrogen will appear to be less than the true one.* From the inflammability of a mixture of ammonia with oxygen gas , it was natural to expect that this alkali would prove , susceptible of slow combustion .
By means of a peculiar apparatus ( on a plan which I have described in the Philosophical Transactions for 18o8 , part II .
but on a smaller scale , and with the substitution of mercury for water ) , I have found that ammonia , expelled from the orifice of a small steel burner , may be kindled by electricity in a vessel of oxygen gas ; and that it is slowly consumed with a pale yellow This consideration suggests the propriety of using no more oxygen in the first combustion of ammonia , than is barely sufficient to inflame it ; or if a larger quantity has been used than is required for this putpose , and a residue consequently obtained , of which the hydrogen forms oly a small proportion , it is proper to add a farther quantity of hydrogen , before the second combustion .
An allowance may , afterwards be made for this addition .
flame .
The combustion , however , is not sufficiently vivid to render the process of any use in the analysis of ammonia .
With nitrous oxide ( containing only 5 per cent. impurity ) ammonia forms a mixture which is extremely combustible .
If the nitrous oxide be in excess , the proportions have a considerable range ; for any mixture may be fired by electricity , of which the ammonia is not less than one-sixth of the whole .
The combustion is followed by a dense cloud , sometimes of an orange colour .
When the nitrous oxide greatly exceeds the ammonia , ( as in the proportion , for example , of loo to go ) there is little or no diminution after firing : and the residuum is composed of a small portion of undecomposed oxide , some oxygen gas , and a considerable quantity of nitrogen , the last of which , however , is not in its full proportion .
When the nitrous oxide is further increased , still more oxygen is found in the residuum .
When , on the contrary , the alkaline gas is redundant , combustion does not take place unless the nitrous oxide forms one-third of the mixture .
A little diminution takes place on firing , but no cloudiness is observed ; and the residue is composed of hydrogen and nitrogen gases , with occasionally a small portion of undecomposed ammonia .
As an example of what takes place , I select the following experiment from several others .
A mixture of 41 measures of ammonia , with 40 of nitrous oxide(=38 pure ) , in all 81 measures , were reduced by combustion to 75 , which were found to consist of 16 hydrogen and 59 nitrogen gases .
To explain this experiment , we may assume ( as is consistent with your own analysis * ) that ioo Researches , Res. ii , Div .
i , or Thomson 's System of Chemistry , 3d edit .
ii .
143 444a measures of nitrous oxide , are equivalent to 5e measures of oxygen gas and lo1 of nitrogen .
The oxygen in 38 measures of nitrous oxide will , therefore , be 19,7 , to which , when the oxygen spent in burning the residuum ( viz. 8 m. is added , we obtain 27,7 for the total oxygen consumed ; aftd multiplying by 2 , we have 55,4 for the hydrogen saturated .
From the residuary nitrogen ( 59 ) deduct 39 measures arising from the decomposition of the nitrous oxide 4m .
, mingled with it as an impurity = 41 , and the remainder , 18 measures , is the nitrogen resulting from the volatile alkali ; and as 41 measures of ammonia give 554 +4 18 = 73,4 measures of permanent gas , 0oo would give 179 measures , in which the hydrogen and nitrogen would exist in the proportion of 75,4 to 24,6 .
From the same facts it may be deduced , that ioo measures of ammonia require for saturation 130 of nitrous oxide 67oxygen gas .
The coincidence then , between the results of the combustion of ammonia with nitrous oxide , and those with oxygen gas , confirms the accuracy of both methods of analysis .
NITROUS GAS , which , it appears from your testimony , * does not compose an inflammable mixture with hydrogen , ( nor as I am assured by Mr. DALTON , with any of the varieties of carburetted hydrogen ) may be employed , I find , for the combustion of ammonia .
The proportions required for mutual saturation are about 20o measures of nitrous gas to ioo of ammonia .
An excess of the former gas does not give accurate results ; since not only the hydrogen of the ammonia , but some of its nitrogen is also condensed ; and the mixture , after being fired , exhibits the cloudy appearance usual in that case .
Forty -eight measures of ammonia , being fired with 6o nitrous gas , ( = 53 pure ) both gases were completely decomposed ; and a residue left consisting of 61 nitrogen and 9g hydrogen .
Sixty measures of ammonia and 41 nitrous gas ( = 36,1 pure ) gave , after firing , a mixture composed of io ammonia , 53nitrogen , and 30ohydrogen .
But taking for granted-that 1oo measures of nitrous gas , according to your analysis , hold in combination a quantity of oxygen equal to 57jnmeasures of oxygen gas , and of nitrogen equal to 48~ measures , and assuming the proportions of the nitrogen and hydrogen in ammonia , to be those established by your experiments and my own .
It will appear from an easy calculation , that the proportion of nitrogen , in the above residua , a little exceeds , and that of the hydrogen rather falls short of what might have been expected .
I have not yet been able to reconcile these differences , by the numerous trials required in a process of so much delicacy ; and I reserve the enquiry for a season of more leisure .
The foregoing statement , I wish to be considered as merely announcing the general fact of the combustibility of a mixture of ammonia and nitrous gas , a property which chiefly derives importance , from its being capable of application to a new method of analysing the latter .
Before concluding this letter , I shall briefly state the results of some experiments , which I have lately made in conjunction with Mr. DALTON , on a subject that formerly occupied much of my attention ; viz. the effect of electricity on the aeriform compounds of carbon and hydrogen .
Subsequent 446 reflection , as well as the candid and judicious criticisms of various writers , * have influenced me to doubt of the accuracy of a few of the conclusions drawn from my former inquiries.f The knowledge of this class of bodies has , also , ieen so materially advanced during the last twelve years , that the examination of their properties may now be undertaken , with much greater confidence and success than formerly .
It is to be lamented , indeed , that experimentalists do not oftener retrace their labours , with the combined advantages of acquired skill , and of a more improved state of the science which they investigate .
The gases , submitted by Mr. DALTON and myself to the action of long continued electrization , were carburetted hydrogen from pit-coal of the specific gravity of about 65o ( air being iooo ) olefiant gas , and carbonic oxide .
Each gas was used in as pure a state as possible ; muriate of lime being first introduced into the same tubes in which the gases were electrified , and being withdrawn when it had exerted its full action .
Platina wires were used to convey the electric discharges .
When the electrization of carburetted hydrogen or olefiant gases was continued sufficiently long , they were each found to expand , notwithstanding their extreme dryness .
No carbonic acid could be discovered in the electrified gas by the nicest tests .
When fired with oxygen , it gave less carbonic acid than the unexpanded gas , and required less oxygen fors saturation .
Calculating , from the diminished product of carbonic acid , how much gas had been decomposed by electrization , it appeared that the decomposed part , in all cases , was about doubled .
The smaller product of carbonic acid from the electrified gas , was sufficiently explained by a deposition of charcoal on the inner surface of the glass tube , too distinct to be at all equivocal , and most abundant from the olefiant gas .
No addition whatsoever of nitrogen was made by the electrization , It appears , therefore , , that the hydro-carburetted gases , like ammonia , are separated by electrization into their elements , the carbon being precipitated , and the hydrogen evolved in a separate'form , and acquiring a state of greater expansion .
This change , however , is effected much more slowly , than the disunion of the elements of ammonia .
From a portion of carbonic acid gas , carefully dried by muriate of lime , and electrized with platina conductors , we obtained , after removing the undecomposed gas by caustic potash , a residuum equal to about one twentieth the whole gas which had been employed .
It was foundd on analysis to consist of oxygen and carbonic oxide gases , in such proportions as to inflame on passing an electric spark through it without any addition , and to be thus convertible again into carbonic acid .
In the experiments of M. SAUssuRE , jun.* that ingenious philosopher obtained only carbonic oxide by the same operation , owing doubtless to the electricity having been conveyed by conductors of copper , which would become oxidized , and prevent the oxygen from being evolved in a separate form .
Carbonic oxide , electrified with similar precautions , did not appear to undergo any change .
Eleven hundred discharges from a Leyden jar had no effect on a quantity of the gas , equal to about one tenth of a cubicr inch .
Its bulk , after this process , was unaltered ' ; no carbonic acid could be discovered in it ; and there was no decided trace of oxyg:n gas in the residuum .
The carbon , it appears , therefore , wllichl exists incarbonic oxide , must be held combined by an extremely strong , affinity .
With sincere esteem and respect , r am , Dear Sir , Your faithful and obliged friend , WM .
HENRY .
449

