PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
VII .
Supplement to the First and Second Part of the Paper of Experiments , for Investigating the Cause of Coloured Concentric Rings between Object Glasses , and other Appearances of a similar Nature .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F. R. S. Read March 15 , 181io vJWHEN the intricacy of the subject , on which my two last papers have been treating , is considered , it will not appear singular that a few supplementary articles should be given .
The compression of the account of the experiments into a small compass , where many material circumstances must be left unnoticed , may throw some obscurity on the results , which can only be removed by examining the subject in a fuller extent , and from various points of view .
I hope the following illustration and additional explanations will have the effect of clearing up what may possibly to some appear obscure or doubtful , in either the first or second part of my paper , and serve also to make the conclusions , which in the second have been chiefly supported by prismatic experiments , directly mDACCCX .
X applicable to such as have in the first been made by convex glasses .
That the colours in all prismatic phenomena , which have been examined in the 44th , 45th , 46th , 47th , and 48 articles of my paper , are produced either by the interior critical separation arising from the different reflexibility of the rays which cause the blue bow , or by the exterior critical separation arising from the different intromissibility of the rays which cause the red bow , has been so clearly and circumstantially proved that it can admit of no doubt ; it may even be conceived by some that I have been too particular in giving the precise angles , when we see in the Lectiones Optice , Sect. II .
Par. 2 , page 257 , 258 , how far Sir I. NEWTON has explained the blue bow ; but a sufficient reason for this minuteness was to give greater clearness to my explanation of the new phenomenon of a red bow , which I have with equal precision described , and which by this means may be , step by step , compared with the production of the blue bow .
By this precaution I hoped to anticipate any objection that might occur , such as , for instance , that Sir I. NEWTON has also explained the red bow which ( it may be supposed ) is merely the converse of the blue bow .
This conception , although NEWTON no where speaks of a red bow , seems to be countenanced by what is said after he has shown that the blue bow is caused by the different reflexibility of the rays of light ; for as he affirms that the red , orange , and yellow colours are transmitted , he contrives a method of pro'ing it experimentally , by adding a second prism , placed under that which gives the blue bow , and thus making the transmitted rays visible .
The full import of this .
NEWTONIANx experiment will be considered in the following articles .
LIV .
Supplemental Considerations , which prove that there are tzvo primary prismatic Bows , a blue one and a red one .
As it will be admitted that we have a primary blue bow , I shall only repeat that by the use of the criterion , which has been indicated at the conclusion of my 44th article , we find that when a plain surface of glass is brought into contact with that side of the prism by which the reflective , or intromissive critical separation is performed , the bow will be turned into streaks , and that the blue bow , which NEWTON has explained , will stand the test of this criterion .
It will now be necessary to prove that the red bow which I have introduced in my 42d article is a phenomenon of equal originality with the NEWTONIAN blue bow .
That it will stand the test of the criterion , has already been proved in the 44th article , since by the contact of a plain surface of glass with the efficient surface of the prism this bow is also turned into streaks ; but as we find that the NEWTONIAN experiment , by the addition of a second prism , has made the red , orange , and yellow colours , which are the residue of the blue bow , visible , it will be necessary to show that the phenomenon which may thus be viewed is not the red bow I have described .
First consideration .
It is a necessary consequence from NEWTON'S explanation of the 49th figure in his Lectiones Optice , page 260 , for a copy of which see Plate V. fig. 1 ; that the angle tsp subtended by the transmitted colours must be exactly equal to the angular breadth of the blue bow tSp and that also the angular position Ct s , when the eye sees the transmitted colours , must be exactly equal to Ct S , in which it is to be placed ; that the blue bow may be seen .
But these angles in my red bow , are not the same as they are in the NEWTONIAN bliie one ; for , in figure 2 , the angle ts p , which the red bow subtends , is 5'55",4 less than the angle tSp in figure3 , subtended by the NEWTONIAN blue one ; and the position of the eye Ct s , in figure 2 , for seeing the vertex of the red bow , is 15'466 " less than CtS figure 3 , in which position the eye sees the vertex of the blue bow .
Now as these angles arise immediately out of the critical separation of the rays , it is evident that one of these bows cannot be the converse of the other , but that we have two critical separations essentially different , namely , the reflective and the intromissive .
Second consideration .
The transmitted colours , which NEWTON makes visible by the addition of a second prism , cannot be seen without it .
For , if the red , orange , and yellow rays , were not intercepted by the additional prism , they would be refracted at pr t , figure i , and pass into the air , scattered in such a manner , as to be totally unfit for giving a distinct image .
My red bow , on the contrary , may be seen in one prism , laidI down : in open daylight , just as we see the blue bow explained by NEWTON .
Third consideration .
The residuary colours of the NEWTONIAN blue bow , being transmitted at pr t , the interposition of a second prism , will refract them downwards to s , for which reason , they can never be seen in the form of a red bow , by an eye placed above the prism at S , where the blue bow is visible ; whence it follows that , if we were not now acquainted with an original red bow , all the phenomena of the sudden change of the colours of the bows , which have been explained in my 43d and 45th articles , would still remain unaccounted for .
Fourth consideration .
The course of the rays which produce the red bow , is so essentially different from the course of those which form the blue bow , that a mere inspection of the figures which represent them , proves , that one cannot be the converse of the other .
The incident rays between A E , a g , figure 4 , are critically separated by the action of the interior base ; those which are reflected from the space between a and E , go to H , and form the blue blow ; those which are transmitted through the same space , are by refraction scattered over an expansion of 9 ? ?
1 '4 " , g contained betw'een the mean refrangible green , passing from a to g , and the least refrangible red , going from e to r. The incident rays in figure 5 , which enter between AE and a e , are likewise critically separated , but the cause of this separation is the action of the exteriorbase of the prism ; and those which are intromitted between a and e so as to come to H , produce the red bow ; the rest bding also intromitted , but not coming to H , are by refraction scattered over a space not exceeding 37 ' 7 " ; the most refrangible violet going from a to v , and the mean refrangible green , from e to g. As the smallness of some of the angles cannot be accurately expressed in the figures , they may be more correctly compared by the calculated particulars , which are as follows .
Blue bow .
Red bow .
Convergency of the incident rays o ? ?
21 ' 41",5 50 56 ' o50 &amp; , Elevation of the vertices 49 57 3,3 49 38 19,5 Divergency of the scattered rays 9s1 4,3 o $7 7 LV .
Illustration of the Dependence of the Streaks of both the Bows , upon the critical Separation .
One of the reasons , which in the 44th article have been given , for ascribing the colours of the bow-streaks to the critical separation which causes the bows , is their being always in a direction parallel to the bows .
With respect to this it may be thought by some , who are still inclined to believe in the fits of easy reflection , and easy transmission , that streaks parallel to the bows , ( though not dependant on critical separation ) will in that situation be seen most easily , and most distinctly , because the visual ray in that position passes most obliquely through the stratum of air between the suifaces .
This observation , however , it will be found , cannot be applied to the streaks of either of the bows ; for in the 5oth article it has already been proved , not that these streaks can most easily , and most distinctly be seen in the place where the bows are , but that they can absolutely not be seen any where else .
First illustration .
To enter more minutely into a subject which is so essential to the support of the arguments contained in the 52d article , let us see whether it will be possible to assign any other reason why the streaks should be parallel to the bows , but their dependence on critical separation ?
What is there in two plain surfaces that can determine the direction of streaks , supposing they could possibly be formed without depending on critical separation ?
Why , for instance , should they not be as in figure 6 , rather than in figure 7 , since in both cases , their arrangement in the shape of a bow , would , according to the objection , be still in the position where the visual ray passes most obliquely through the stratum of air ?
The necessity of some cause for the direction of the streaks , may be inferred from the experiment which has been given in the 35th article .
For when a plain slip of glass is laid upon a cylindrical curvature , the line of contact , which way soever it be turned , will determine the direction of the streaks that are to be seen ; but when two plain surfaces touch all over equally , no bias of this sort can be given to the direction of streaks : the same cause , therefore , which determines the direction of the bow , must also determine that of its streaks , and this establishes their dependence on critical separation .
Second illustration .
In what has been said , the possibility that streaks might be formed between two plain surfaces independent of critical separation , has been admitted , but this I cannot allow .
The advocates for the colours by thin plates , themselves , must confess , that an uniformly thin plate of air between two plain surfaces , ought not to prodtuce streaks , which contain a variety of colours , so that the very existence of streaks , already proves the action of some principle that will produce different colours ; but when the plain side of a prism is laid upon a plain surface of glass , in which situation it has been proved , by the appearance of the bows , that either the reflective or intromissive colour making principle , may be made to exert itself at the interior or exterior base of the prism , and when in either case , streaks are immediately produced , their dependence on the same cause that produces the bows , namely , the critical separation cannot be doubted .
Third illustration .
That all the bow-streaks are not only dependant on critical separation , but that each collection depends in particular , on the very principle which forms the x55 bow to which it belongs , is proved by the characteristic colours of the streaks .
In the blue bow-streaks , the blue colour is greatly predominant ; and in the streaks of the red bow , the red and green are most abundant , ' which could never happen if the reflective separation did not copiously furnish the blue , and the intromissive separation as copiously the red and green colours ; and what must put this dependence past all doubt , is the sudden change which may be made in the colour of the streaks ; for by the mere interposition of a screen , or by lifting up the prism towards the light , we may not only change one bow into the other , as has been proved in the 4gd article , but when a plain surface is held under the base of the prism , in order to turn the bow into streaks , we may then change the colours of the streaks belonging to one bow , into those which belong to the streaks of the other , with as much certainty as we can change one bow into the other .
A beautiful experiment to prove this , is as follows .
Let two equilateral prisms be tied together as in figure 8 .
Then standing at the distance of five or six feet from an open window , with the prism held in the situation as represented , the sides b d , dc being covered with a pasteboard screen efg , look into the side a b , straight forward to the window , and you will see beautiful blue bow-streaks .
The rays which produce them enter through a c , are critically separated by reflection from the surface b c , and cause the blue bow , which by the plain surface b c , of the prism bd c , is converted into streaks that go to the eye at E. Without altering either the position of the eye , or of the prism , drop the screen efg , gand the blue bow-streaks will instantly be changed into those of the red bow .
The rays which cause them , enter through the side b c , are critically separated by intromission , and form the red bow , but are at the same time turned into streaks by the side b c , of the prism bc d , and go to the eye at E. The experiment will succeed equally well , if , instead of the prism bc d , a highly polished plain slip of glass of the size of the base of the prism abc is tied to it .
LVI .
Illustration of the Dependence of Rings , seet in a Priszm upon the critical Separation .
If it should now be granted , that streaks which may be seen by applying a plain glass to the side of a prism , depend entirely upon critical separation , it may still be doubted , whether the rings which are produced , when a prism is laid upon a spherical surface , are likewise to be ascribed to the same cause , but this may also be decided by a very satisfactory experiment as follows .
Upon a small board , lay a sheet of white paper to reflect light upwards , and through the paper fasten three short tacks into the board ; then place an object glass upon the tacks , and put a right angled prism across its surface , which should be of the convexity of a globe of about go or 40 feet diameter .
A pasteboard screen , formed as in figure 9 , must be hung over the vertex to darken the exposed side , that only the scattered light which comes from the paper , may enter the prism through the base , and cause a red bow .
The board should be placed upon a stand , near a door which admits the unconfined light of the heavens , where no adventitious colours will disturb the experiment .
As soon as the eye comes to the altitude of the bow , a set of rings will be seen , whose colours , when the bow goes across their center , will be red and green .
Some motion of the eye to bring the bow a very little above or below the center , will show the colours to advantage , and in this position of the eye , we are sure to see the rings precisely in the range of the bow which is turned into rings , but remains visible at both sides , where the critical separation is known to take place .
When they have been sufficiently viewed , let the screen be removed , that the brighter light of the heavens from above , may transform the red bow into a blue one , which will at the same time instantly change the colours of the rings from red and green to blue .
If it should now be alleged , that streaks or rings may still be independant of critical separations , notwithstanding their taking the colours of the bows , because they must necessarily appear blue , red , or green , when they are seen in rays of these colours , we may answer this objection by proving experimentally , that any adventitious colours that may occasionally mix with streaks or rings , can only tinge them in the places where they pass to the eye in the same direction , but can themselves not produce either blue , red , or green streaks or rings .
Place yourself before a window , and holding in your hand a right angled prism , with a plain -slip of glass under the base , look in at one side , and turn the prism upon its axis , till you see the horizontal bars of the window tinged with blue above , and red below ; bring the red bowstreaks upon one of these bars , and lowering the streaks gradually , you will find that the colours of the bar , merely affect only those parts of the streaks over which they pass , but do not cause any additional streaks of their own colour .
To see this still better , take an equilateral prism with a slip of plain glass held under it as before , and turn the axis of the prism gradually down at the left , till the vertical separations of the panes of glass in the witdow , are equally tinged with the horizontal ones .
Let ab and bc figure lo , represent one of the angles made by the meeting of the divisions betweeen the panes of glass ; then bring the bow streaks into the direction A B , and draw them gradiually over the corner b , this motion will cause the streaks to be successively cut by the adventitious colours , but you will at the same time observe these colours to remain confined to the individual place over which they pass , and to produce no other effect than what must result from a mixture of their tinge , with the particular colour of the streaks at the place of their meeting .
The corner abc will remain perfectly single , which plainly proves that the adventitious colours , not being caused by critical separation , cannot produce streaky phenomena , whereas if they could diffuse themselves , we ought to see at least 5 , 6 , or 7 coloured angular figures , parallel to each other , as represented at d of .
LVII .
Remarks on Colours supposed to be produced by thin Plates or Wedges of Air .
First remark .
In the 39th article of my paper it has been shown , that coloured appearances , such as streaks , cannot be seen between the plain surfaces of two parallel pieces of glass applied to each other ; if an objectioi should however be made to this , by showing an experiment with two supposed plain surfaces of glass in contact , where irregular streaks , or flashy appearances may be seen , I shall be authorized to avail myself of what has !
been proved in the 37th article ; for it has been shown , that irregular surfaces will cause irregular figures ; for which reason such appearances will only prove , not that plain surfaces can produce them , but that the surfaces between which we see them , are not strictly plain .
Second remark .
If it should still farther be conceived that by means of a wedge-formed plate of air , strait bands of colour would be produced between plain surfaces slightly inclined , the following experiment will show , that the objection cannot be well founded .
I selected two plates of glass , their surfaces being as perfectly plain and parallel as I could possibly find them , and the event shows that they were sufficiently so .
The plates were applied to each other in such a manner , that the end of one touched the surface of the other , in a very sharp straight line , while at the opposite end they were kept from contact , by a very fine single thread of the silk worm placed between them , which would produce the required slight inclination .
No streaks were then visible .
I pressed the line of contact strongly together , and streaks became visible ; but they were disfigured by pressure , and most disfigured where I pressed most .
As soon as the pressure was removed , these coloured appearances vanished .
My plain slips were cut with a diamond out of a parallel plate of glass , polished by an optician for optical purposes , and the incumbent slip had its tangent edge finely ground in an angle of about 70 or 8o degrees , to make it a straight line without injuring its plain figure .
-Third remark .
It will be proper also to take notice of an objection that may be made to the foregoing experiment , by appealing to one of an opposite result ; for possibiy two plates of glass , supposed to be plain , may be shown , which , when put together slightly inclined , as the experiment requires , will produce streaks near the line of contact ; but , if this should be the case , my 35th article accounts so well for the appearance of such streaks , that it would not be philosophical to ascribe them to plain surfaces , when it has been shown , that cylindrical curves of any figure , will invariably produce them ; for which reason , I should think myself justified in concluding , that one or other of the plates , which were supposed to be plain , had a cylindrical termination ; the figure of which might be circular , elliptical , parabolical , hyperbolical , or indeed of any other variety of cylindrical curvature .
LVIII .
Illustrating Remarks on the Intention of the 14th Figure , explained in the 48th Article of my Paper .
The great difficulty of representing rays of light , which are compressed beyond all conception , is such , that even a figure one thousand times magnified , which gives a delineation of them , is hardly less inadequate to give a tolerable idea of what is to be expressed , than if it had not been at all increased in its dimensions .
This being the case , it might be expected that some objections would arise , such as that in my figure constructed for explanation of the streaks the vacancies are observed to correspond with , and to depend upon the intervals between the rays 1 , , , 4 , &amp;c. originally assumed as separated by blank intervals .
There may appear to be some plausibility in this objection , but still if some notion of this kind should be entertained , it may be shown , not only that such a remark would not be quite correct , but also , that the supposed force of it , is founded on a misconception of the figure .
First remark .
When we look upon this figure il a cursory way , it may seem as if the vacancies corresponded with the assumed distances of the rays , but this is partly erroneous ; for even in the short extent of the figure , the vacancy between 5 and 6 at the bottom , does not correspond with that at the top .
The lower single vacancy at 18 , does not agree with the two vacancies above .
Between 16 and 17 is a vacancy at the bottom , but none at the top .
The lower vacancy at I , has no corresponding one above ; nor has that between 4 and 5 below , a corresponding vacancy at the top .
Second remark .
The rays 1 , 2 , , 4 , &amp;c. are by no means assumed as separated by blank intervals , but as rays at a certain distance from each other , one thousand times greater in the figure , than in their compressed natural state .
Third remark .
The appearance of the rays ill my figure , was not intended to represent streaks such as will be seen , but to denote their incipientcourse in passilg from the base of the prism , to an eye whose distance from that base we are to suppose not less than c0oo inches .
The visible arrangement and colour of the streaks , erroneously conceived to be expressed in my figure , can only be deduced from the mixture of rays at the place where they enter the eye , the pupil of which it should be remembered , must have a proportional diameter of o00 inches .
The angles also , it has been explained , could not possibly be drawn of just dimensions , and from what has been said , we may conclude , that to make a calculation of the mixture and colour of all the rays when they reach the eye , even with the spare quantity of them which has been drawn in the figure , would be extremely laborious , and that a thorough investigation of this particular point would really , as I have before said , be an endless undertaking .
The only fault , therefore , that may be found with my figure , I believe is , that it enters perhaps too particularly into this circumstance .
It is well known , that similar discussions about irises , fringes , or halos , have generally been dispatched without giving us the least intimation about the real angular course of the rays that produce them .
It was indeed , not incumbent on me to go so far , but where angles and distances and intersections fell in my way , that could be determined , I was unwilling to pass them by unnoticed , as such considerations certainly tend to facilitate our conception of the ultimate produ ction of the streaks .
Fourth remark .
That such delineations may be used , to show in what manner we may conceive intricate optical phenomena to be produced , I have the authority of eminent writers in my favour ; thus NO WTON , in his first figure of the Sd book of Optics , assumes four rays on each side , to illustrate in what manner we may conceive that a hair can give a proportionally larger shadow near its body , than at a distance ; but no one will affirm , that these four rays can give an idea of the actual quantity of light , and the real angles in which it falls on the different parts of the paper ; all which it would be necessary to show , in order to prove , that the appearance of it on paper , agrees with the hypothesis ; and yet we may nevertheless perfectly well c nceive the author 's meaning , and can make no serious objection to his explanation , on account of his having taken but four rays , at four arbitrary distances , moving in four arbitrary angles .
LIX .
Experiments on the multiplying Power of Surfaces in contact , which modfy the Form of prismatic rAppearances .
The simplicity of the following experiments is such as will ensure them a ready admittance , even by those who may not have an opportunity of repeating them ; their application also to some of the-most intricate phenomena of modifying the form of the prismatic appearances , must render them of considerable value .
' First experiment .
Upon a plain metalline mirror 5 inches long , and 4 broad , I laid the base ABC D , figure i , of a right-angled prism ; and having darkened the room , a candle was placed so as to throw its light upon one side of the prism , the reflection of which from the base , I saw through the other .
The eye was then gradually lifted up to such an altitude , that a blue bow , if it were made visible by the admission of an uniform scattered light , would extend from a to b ; the candle was then withdrawn , till only the inverted flame of it remained visible at c. A small pasteboard screen as long as the prism , and bent at the top as in figure 9 , must be hung by the end a upon the vertex of the prism , to cover the reflected image of the candle , and the side bc must be short enough to leave about one or two tenths of an inch open for scattered light to enter , so as by reflection from the mirror , in proper angles to make the blue bow visible .
Every thing being in this arrangement , and the room properly darkened , as well as the eye guarded from the direct light of the candle , place the pasteboard screen on the prism , and you will then perceive a very bright small spectrum of red and green light at d , which consists of those rays that in the blue bow place are 9,..,._ transmitted through the base of the priAm , and are reflected by the mirror in such a direction , as to come to the eye .
I do not mention the blue bow streaks which may be seen with some attention ; they are very faint , and are not the object of this experiment , serving only to prove , that the coloured spectrum is formed in the bow place .
Second experiment .
Every thing remaining arranged as before , lay a narrow slip of thin pasteboard of under the end of the prism at A C , figure i , but leave BD in contact ; the eye must also be elevated till the bow place comes up to a b. In-this position you will see the small image multiplied , so that , according to the brightness of the candle , and clearness of the prism and reflector , 6 , 7 , or 8 coloured spectra may be perceived , arranged from d tog as expressed in the figure .
They are not perfect images of the candle , but so many reflections of the red , yellow , and green light transmitted at the blue bow place , and every one of them will accordingly be seen to be nearly as broad in the green part , as in the red ; none of them coming to a tapering point , like the white image of the candle .
The spectra are consequently occasioned by a reiterated reflection of the critically separated rays between the subjacent mirror , and the exterior surface of the base of the prism .
Indeed , nothing can be more evident than this reiteration of reflections , which is so well known , that opposite parallel mirrors are often put up in rooms , to produce a multiplied extent .
Third experiment .
When the eye is lifted high enough to have the line of the critical reflection quite above the prism , and the small screen is also taken away , we may repeat lifting and depressing the end A C , and the two reflecting surfaces will then , by : reiteration in the common way , give us a set of complete tapering images of the white flame of the candle , arranged as in figure 13 .
And in consequence of the various distance of the prism from the mirror , the distance of the several:images of the candle , will increase and decrease , so that when at last , the end AC is again set down on the mirror , they will apparently coalesce into one single bright image .
The use that may be made of these experiments is as folows .
From the laws of reflection we know , that the extent of the multiplied images perceived in reiterated reflections , between two surfaces , may at all times be ascertained when their distance is given .
It is also well known , that when two plates are in what is called contact , we can in fact , only suppose them to be extremely near each other .
The production of streaks , when , a plain glass is laid under a prism , is a sufficient proof that , even when they are in the closest contact which can be made , the subjacent surface still acts by reflection upon the rays that pass through the base of the prism ; for if the contact of the two surfaces were so complete as to make one solid mass of glass , no reflection would , take lplace within its substance .
LX .
Of the breadth of the Streaks compared to that of the Bows , and the Cause why they must take up a broader Space than the Bows from which they are derived .
It must have been noticed by those who have examined the beautiful streaks , , which in my paper it has been shown , will be produced when a plain ; surface is held under the base of the prism , that they take up a broader space than the bQws ; and notwithstanding what has been said in explanation of their production , by the reflection of the transmitted rays in the 14th figure of the second part of my paper , it may probably be objected , that since the.space occupied by the streaks adjacent to the bows , is much broader than either of the bowzs , it is conceived , that critical separation will not account for them .
At a first view of this remark , it may in some measure appear to be justified ; for if there were no other cause than merely critical separation , the increase of the breadth of the streaks could not well be accounted for .
It must however be recollected , that according to what has been proved in the 47th and 48th articles , the modifying power of surfaces in the production of streaks , is added to the principle of the critical separation which produces the colours .
First cause .
In consequence of the reflection of the transmitted rays , from the plain surface held under the prism , it may already be seen in the abovementioned 14th figure , that the streaks must take up a greater extent thai the bows ; for instance , the last reflected colour which is marked , enters the pristagain at v 2,67 inches beyond the faintest part of the bow .
This gives a mragnified extent of e7,44 to the streaks , that of the bow being 24,8 .
Second cause .
But in order to find a greater correspondence between calculation and actual observation , :I must repeat that we are not to supposethe twenty intervals between the '-as sumed rays to be blanks .
The reason ; why more ray s were not introduced , was to avoid crowding the figure unnecessarily but let us take , for instance , blue rays falling on the interior base at,003 of an inch from 3 towards No. 4 ; then , in order to be reflected so as to reach the eye , they must have tht Z oblique incidence of 94949'21 " and since we know that many of the rays which fall on the same spot , will be transmnitted while others are reflected , we find by computation , that blue rays with the above incidence being transmitted , will be refracted in such a manner , as to arrive at the subjacent reflecting surface in an angle of ii ' 32 " , and will , therefore , re-enter the prism at the magnified distance of 59,6 inches from the place at which they left it , or 63,2 from a ; and this will give an extent to streaks , amounting to nearly 2 times the breadth of the bow .
The same will take place with indigo and violet rays to an indefinite extent , , which it will not be necessary to particularise .
Third cause .
In the foregoing article it has been shown , , that beside the single reflection , which in the i4th figure is , delineated as taking place between the base of the prism , and the subjacent reflecting plane , 6 , 7 , and 8 succeeding reiterations of the same effect will carry on the reflected rays to a certain extent which is assignable .
These rays would have crowded the figure so much , that they could not be inserted ; but let us see how far they may extend the breadth of the streaks .
I have already shown , that the first reflection , on the magnified dimensions of the figure , will carry the transmitted rays 2,64 inches beyond the bow ; these rays , by reiterated reflections , may therefore be extended to 14,84 ; 18,48 , or 21,12 inches beyond it , which alone will be sufficient ; but if moreover , the intermediate rays are here also taken into consideration , there cannot remain a doubt , but that the breadth of the streaks is sufficiently accounted for .
LXI .
Of the Manner in ; which Rays that are Separated by critical Reflection or Intromission come to the Eye .
The subject of vision in general , affords so many intricate phenomena , that we must not be surprisedif some things occur , that are of difficult conception .
By means of the principle of the intromissive separation of the colours , I have already accounted for sev'eral appearances , that no other principle , not even the NEwTot-NIAN fits of easy reflection , and easy transmission ca-i , possibly reach .
If therefore , itshould be objected to my ascribing the generation of the colours of the NEWTONIAN rings , likewise , to critical separation that rings must arise Jrom some other cause than critical separation , becau-se they can be seen at the under surface of a glass terminated by pfrallel planes , ( as in figure ' , ) and in other situations in which critical separation cannot reach the eye , it will be necessary to examimie how far this observation is well founded .
The objection seems to convey a double assertion ; the first is , that in the situation of a plain glass laid 'upon a convex surface , 1no critical separation canreach the eye ; and the next , that if I cannot show how the rays come to the eye , the ' rings cannot be caused by critical separation .
The first of these positions contains som'ething takenfor granted , ' which cannot be admlitted .
It supposes that Iaffirm the critical separation to be the sole cause of the rings , whereas I have plainly shown , that this separation furnishes only the colours , and that the modifying power of the subjacent spherical tire flecting surface , turns these colours into rings .
Now to show ho , w very different an effet may be produced , when thel critically separated rays are acted upon by the modifying_ power ' of a surface upon which they fall after their separation , I need but refer to the experiment which has been mentioned in the 5th paragraph of the 4ed article , where the rays of the bows , which can only be seen in one particular situation , when they come directly to : the eye , are effectually rendered visible in every direction , by the scattering power of the surface on which they are thrown .
I proceed now , by different decisive experiments to prove , that the objection in neither of the senses it may be taken , can affect the validity of the theory I have explained .
First set of experiments .
Having ground and polished a metalline mirror , to the convexity of a sphere of 40 feet diameter , I laid upon it a right angled prism , and when they were properly exposed to the light , I lifted the eye gradually up to the blue bow place , and saw the rings that were formed of the colours critically separated by the base of the prism .
That these rings owe their formation to the joint effect of the critical separation , and modifying power of the spherical metalline reflecting surface , cannot , after what has been proved inf the 56th article , admit of a doubt .
I then lifted the eye very slowly higher and higher , till it was brought to the vertex of the prism , and attending minutely to the rings all this time , I could no where perceive the least interruption in their uniform visibility .
I do not take notice of the gradual changes in the colour and size of the rings , because such gradual changes equally happen to those that are seen between object glasses .
When the eye is over the vertex , the prism being equiangular at the base , we see in the opposite side an equal set of rings .
; We may then advance the eye still farther , lndkeep the first set in view , or , what will be more convenient , take up the opposite set of rings , and confining our attention to it , may draw the eye down again till we lose it : which will not be , till when the eye is nearly brought down to the level of the side exposed to the light .
Here then we have an instance of rings composed of the colours furnished by critical separation , which may be seen from the obliquity of:82*17'g1 ' , down to I suppose about 5 degrees , which gives an angular space of at least 77 degrees .
To extend this range farther , I used several prisms with different refracting angles ; first , one where that angle was So degrees ; then one with 25 ; another with o2 ; and also one of 9 degrees .
By this successive change of prisms , it was ascertained , that the range of visibility increased , when a smaller refracting angle was used .
In the last prism , the rings became visible at an elevation of 36 43'6 " ; this up to 90 on one side , and down again at the other to 5 degrees , gives a range of more than 138 degrees , in which these rings may be seen .
To manage this experiment it is necessary , when the eye is vertical , gently to turn the mirror with the prism upon it half round , that the eye may them be depressed gradually , without interfering with the incident light .
From these experiments it may be presumed , that were the refracting angle still farther diminished , it would increase the range at last to that of a plain glass , which therefore , Id am authorized to look upon , as a , prism with a vanishing refracting angle .
It will be seen presently , that even this has been completely verified .
As the modifying power of spherical surfaces , to render critically separated colours visible in every direction , is by these experimenets established , we 'might take it for grantedi that a similar power will be exerted by all sorts of curvatures and irregularities of reflecting surfaces ; but in order to take nothing upon trust that may be proved , I had recourse to the following experiments with different curvatures .
Second set of experiments .
Upon a ridge of glass ground and polished to a cylindrical form , I laid the base of a prism , with one angle of 96 ; and two of 42 degrees each .
In this I saw beautifully coloured streaks , or rather very narrow lenticular configurations , on one side as low as the , angle of 42o , will allow the critical separation to be seen , and on the other down to within about 5 ?
of the level of the plane , which gives a range of visibility of nearly 82 degrees .
Having also provided a refracting angle of 3 ? ?
43 ' 8 " , and lain it upon the same cylindrical ridge , the visibility of these phenomena was extended to 152 degrees .
A plain glass laid upon the same ridge , extended this range to 170 degrees , That these effects of extending the range of the angular space , in which the narrow coloured lenticular forms are visible , is owing to the modifying power of the cylindrical surface , is particularly evident from the parallelism of the coloured phenomena with the line of contact , and from the direction of their extended visibility at right angles to this line .
Having laid a right angled prism upon the same ridge , I perceived not only the coloured primary figure , but also a similar , magnified secondary one , which I ascribed to a reflection from the flat base of the glass , the upper side of which , contained the polished cylindrical ridge .
To take off this secondary image , I deprived the base of its reflecting power , by rubbing it on emery , which had the required effect .
A doubt might occur , with regard to the cause which produced the colours , because in these experiments the subjacent medium was of glass ; and although on account of the emeried base , we may be certain that the curved ridge only acted by reflecting the critically separated transmitted colours in a variety of angles , yet to prove in the most satisfactory manner , that these colours were exclusively from the prism , I ground and polished two metalline cylindrical pieces to different curvatures , and laying upon them my small prismatic angle of 3 ?
43 ' , the minute lenticular figures , became again visible over an extent of 152 degrees .
To vary the experiment , I placed a cylindrical ridge in contact with a plain metalline mirror , and saw with great facility through the plain side of the glass which was towards the eye , and was highly polished , the extended range of the modified colours , which in this case amounted to 170 degrees .
From this variation a very important consequence may be drawn , which is , that a radiation from curved surfaces reflected by plain ones , will effect the same extension of visibility , as a radiation from plain surfaces reflected by curved ones .
How much more then must this effect be produced , when two curved surfaces are applied to each , as for instance , when two double convex object glasses are laid together ?
Third set of experiments .
Upon a piece of mica tied over a cylinder , I placed a right angled prism , and having brought the eye to the aititude where critically separated rays are visible , I perceived a number of irregular forms of beautiful colours .
When the position of the eye was gradually changed , MuDCCCx .
A a I found that the modifying power of the irregularly curved surface of the mica , made these configurations visible over the same angular space in which I had already seen the rings , and lenticular figures .
These appearances are often so delicate , that they may easily escape our notice ; although we slould follow them with great attention when the eye is moved .
This will happen , especially when they are extremely minute , and in the experiment of the last paragraph of the 5oth article , I had actually overlooked them , ; but on repeating the same afterwards with a magnifier , I perceived them without much difficulty .
I tried not only the smaller angles of the former experiments , with the same result of a gradually increased range of visibility , but had also recourse to the plate of glass of unequal thickness mentioned in the 32d article , the sides of which , when produced , would meet in an angle of 29 ' " .
Its surfaces approach so nearly to parallelism , that the inference I had drawn from the trial of smaller angles , when rinmrs on the convex mirror were examined , was now verifiedby an .
application of this plate to the surface of mica ; for with the assistance of a magnifier , I saw the coloured forms over an , anglar spa.ce amounting to 171 ? ?
18 28 " , which is full as .
much as we could have seen with a plain glass .
From this range , in which the actual angles of elevation of the eye above the plane of the glass at each extreme were measured , it appears that 5 degrees , which I have before allowed for this purpose , is more than sufficient .
The foregoing three sets of experiments prove , that the first of the assertions , into which I have divided the objection is not well founded , because the modification of the subjacent reflecting surface , so essential to the formation of the phenomena under consideration , has not been attended to .
In addition to this , the inference I have drawn from a foregoing experiment proves , that not only the modifcation of the reflecting surface , but also that through which the rays are transmitted and radiate upon the subjacent one , must be equally taken into consideration .
It remains therefore established , that by combination , the figure of either of the surfaces in contact , be it the reflecting or the radiating one , will make these appearances visible over an extended space , in the shape of rings , ellipses , lenticular figures , and all sorts of irregular configuratiols , except in the only case , where both reflection and radiation , happen between two plain surfaces in contact , and where consequently no change in the angle of seeing the critically separated rays can take place .
The uniformity of this modification will then produce streaks , only visible in the bow place .
If the objection should now assume the second form , which is , that unless I can show how the rays of the critical separa tion thus modified can reach the eye , the rings must arise from some other cause , I may then fairly say , it is suffcient to have proved two very esserntial points , the ffirst of which is , that these rings are formed from the colours of the critical separation , modified by the subjacent reflecting surfae ad the next , that when this modification is caused by subjacen ' or even by incurnbent surfaces of ainy curvature whatsoever , that can be brought into proper contact , their micaatc-iod1n of rejection or radiation will then increase the field of visibility of al te vaious coloured phenomena that can be prodL , ced A a to whatever extent the circumstances of the combination of the two essential surfaces may allow .
The very case proposed in the objection , of a slip of plain glass laid on a spherical surface , has been examined in the most simple form possible , by using for the spherical curvature , a piece of polished metal , to exclude all adventitious source of the generation of colours , and employing for the contact of a plain surface , the base of a prism , on the inside of which , according to the NEWTONIAN doctrine of the different reflexibility of light , it must be admitted , the colours will be critically sepa- .
rated .
Then , without the least change of form , or contact of the two essential surfaces , it has been proved , that a diminution of the prismatic angle , will gradually extend the visibility of the rings , till , even before that angle comes to a vanishing state , where the prism would be converted into a plain slip of glass , the rings may be seen in every direction , and at any elevation of the eye , in which they can be seen , through a slip of glass such as the objection supposes .
As this then has been proved not only of rings , but of all other possible configurations , that may be caused by the rays of the critically separated colours , modified by reflection or radiation from curved surfaces , it is evident , that an objection which asserts that such colours cannot be seen , contradicts the plainest and best established facts .
With regard to the actual course of the rays from the very moment of their critical separation into colours , till they produce the required effect , it cannot surely be expected that I should trace them through a most intricate complication of reflections from curve to curve , when it has been shown , in the second part of my paper , that even with streaks , which U7==== UU i , I'l -Nz ?
i-lll_----____l I ? . ?
_ ?
?_____ _-I-----_ ------I_-__I_ ?
__ 111---- .
1.----------_------1 Iii II iIII II I : iIIiI Ii I.I &lt; 1 Th iio.s Toyx .
MI)CCCSX.b VI .
p. -7 6 .
t i , &lt; J / 2 .
^,.5 B. -----^-^ 6^7 -----B B IN ; 2.d9ni a n. BX BB *{A : f _._ ... .-----------------A ) I.e , i , $ .
lT , * ' ... ^ , , ^( 'r. .
&amp; 762 .
C ' ?
:i^y/ .
z4 ACI__I _C_ _ ?
II_ -t ... j I 1 , I. iIij -1,.._ .
I.-14 are produced by the contact of two plain surfaces , it would be an endless undertaking to follow them till they enter the eye .
Enough has already been said upon this subject to con .
vince every intelligent reader , that all the phenomena of coloured rings , which have been ascribed to the effect of certain fits of easy reflection and easy transmission of the rays of light , as well as the great variety of other coloured appearances of which I have treated , admit of a most satisfactory solution , by substituting the solid principle of the critical separation of the different colours in the room of these fits .

