XV .
/ MIehod of drawivg extremelyjine Wires .
By William Hyde Wollaston , ?
e. D. $c .
R. S Read February 18 , 183g .
IT is recorded by MUSSCIENBROEK , that an artist of Augsburg drew a wire of gold so slender , that five hundred feet of it weighed only one grain ; but the method by which this was effected is not mentioned , and indeed it has been doubted , whether it could really have been done .
I shall however show , that a wire of gold may , without much difficulty , be obtained finer than that spoken of by MUSSCIENBROEK , and that wires of platina may be drawn much more slender , with the utmost facility .
Those who draw silver wire in large quantities for lace and embroidery , sometimes begin with a rod that is about three inches in diameter , and ultimately obtain wires that are as small as 5i0of an inch in thickness .
If in any stage of this process a rod of silver wire be taken , and a hole be drilled through it longitudinally , having its diameter one-tenth part of that of the rod , and if a wire of pure gold be inserted , so as to fill the hole , it is evident that by continuing to draw the rod , the gold within it will be reduced in diameter exactly in the same proportion as the silver ; so that if both be thus drawn out together till the diameter of the silver is 1 of an inch , then that of the gold will be only adT- ; and of such wire five hundred and fifty feet would be requisite to weigh one grain .
For the purpose of removing the coating of silver that surrounds it , the wire must be steeped for a few minutes in warm nitrous acid , which dissolves the silver without danger of doing any injury to the gold .
And though it might be difficult in this manner to preserve any considerable length of such wires , it is of little importance for any of those uses to which it is likely to be applied .
In my endeavours to make slender gold wires by the method above described , the difficulty of drilling the central hole in a metal so tough as fine silver , was greater than I had expected , and I was induced to try whether platina might not be substituted for the gold , as in that case its infusibility would allow me to coat it with silver without the necessity of drilling .
Having formed a cylindrical mould sx of an inchl in dameter , I fixed in the centre of it a platina wire previously drawn to the 0of an inch , and then filled the mould with silver .
When this rod was drawn to -T , my platina was reduced to Ob-f , and by successive reduction I obtained wires of -s and o-a , each excellent for applying to the eye-pieces of astronomical instruments , and perhaps as fine as can be useful for such purposes.* Since this had been the primary object that I had in view , I should have thought my time ill bestowed in pursuing farther the practical application of a method to which there seems no limit , except the imperfections of the metal employed .
But as I found by trial the tenacity of these wires to be greater than was to be expected in proportion to their substance , that circumstance excited some doubts regarding the correctness of the estimate by which their diameter had been deduced .
Other wires were consequently drawn with the utmost care , as to the quality and substance of the platina employed , and as to the proportional reduction of its diameter in the process of wire-drawing .
The extremity of a platina wire having been fused into a globule nearly i of an inch in diameter , was next hammered out into a square rod , and then drawn again into a wire 'of an inch in diameter .
One inch of this wire duly coated with silver was drawn till its length was extended to 182 inches , consequently the proportional diminution of the diameter of the platina will be expressed by the square root of 182 , so that its measure had become 3sZ- .
The 253X 3 , f5 3425 specific gravity of the coated wire was assumed to be 10,5 , and since the weight of 1oo inches was 1i 1 grains , its diameter was inferred to be 8 of an inch , or just eighty times that of the platina contained in it .
With portions of the platina wire thus obtained , and successively reduced in diameter , I had an opportunity of repeating the trials of its tenacity with greater confidence in the justness of the estimate , and the results showed generally ( though with some accidental exceptions ) that the process of wiredrawing , which is well known to improve the strength of *I am indebted to my friend Dr. MAR CET for the simple and easy method by which the fusion was effected .
A piece of wire , about six inches long , having been bent to an angle in the middle , one half of its length was held in the flame of a spirit lamp impelled by a current of oxygen , and its extremity was thus fused in about half a minute.:n 6 metals within moderate limits , continued also to add something to the tenacity of platina even as far as l of an inch , which supported 14 grain before it broke ; but the wire on which these experiments were made began then to be impaired by repetition of the operation : so that although I afterwards obtained portions of it , as small as 3o , of an inch in diameter , it was in many places interrupted , and I could place no reliance upon any trials of its tenacity .
There are some little circumstances in the management of these fine wires , which it may be of advantage to describe for the assistance of those who would apply them to any useful purpose .
When the diameter is not less than T or 7o -r of an inch , the difficulty of seeing and applying them in short pieces is not considerable ; but when their diameter is farther reduced , and their length as much as an inch or more , the slightest current of air is sufficient to defeat all attempts to lay hold of an object so difficult to see , and so impossible to feel .
It is therefore necessary to retain a part of the silver coating at each extremity , which , at the same time that it assists in finding the end , also serves to stretch the wire with a certain moderate tension , and affords the means of attaching it in any required position .
The method that I have found most convenient is to bend a portion of the coated wire into the shape of the letter U , with small hooks at its upper extremities .
In this form it will conveniently hang upon a wire of gold or of platina , with the lowest part immersed in nitrous acid , till the coating of silver is removed from that part .
It may then , without difficulty , be 17 lifted from its place , by one of the hooks alone , to any other situation , or suspended by it , with the other hook downwards , as the means of attaching a small chain , or other series of equal weights in trials of its tenacity .

