VII .
On th methods of cutting rock crystalfor micrometers .
By WILLIAM HYDE WOLLASTON , M. D. F. R. S. Read February 4 , 182o .
FOR the mere purpose of examining the phenomena of double refraction , it is extremely easy for any skilful workman to combine a wedge of rock crystal , or any other doubly refracting substance , with another wedge of crown glass opposed to it , in such a manner that a luminous object seen through them shall appear in its true place by ordinary refraction , accompanied by a second image at a small distance , produced by the extraordinary refraction of the crystal .
In consequence of the dispersion of colours which occurs in employing different substances , the above combination is not suited for the purpose of the micrometer invented by the Abbe RoCHON ; but it is not difficult to obtain such a section of rock crystal as may be substituted for the wedge of glass , so that the pencil of light shall be restored to its original direction void of colour , without diminishing the separation of the images occasioned by .
the first wedge .
But since the degree to which the double refraction of rock crystal separates the two portions of a beam of light transmitted through it , is not so great as may frequently be wished , it becomes desiratle to increase this effect beyond what can be produced by the most obvious method of employing that substance ; and it does appear from M. RoCHON'S own account of his contrivance , * that he fully succeeded in accomplishing this end .
But although he informs us that the means employed , as best suited to his views , had exactly the effect of doubling the amount of deviation produced by ordinary means , he has not chosen to explain the mode of construction he adopted , and has merely referred to a certain artist living at that time in Paris , who was in possession of his secret , and skilful in applying it to the construction of micrometers .
As I have reason to .
think that the method to which he alludes in his memoir has never yet been described , I design , in the present communication , to explain a combination which I have found advantageous , and which I think must be the same as that of M. RocHoN .
I shall hope to render the principles of this construction intelligible to every one acquainted with the original observation of HUYGENS on the properties of polarised light , and to enable any competent artist to cut wedges from hexagonal prisms of rock crystal , in the positions requisite to produce , by their combination , the double effect to which I allude .
There are three principal directions in which a crystal may be cut specifically different from each other , which require to be distinctly understood .
In the first place , let us suppose a prismatic crystal to be placed with its axis in a vertical position , and a portion to be cut off from the base by a plane surface at right angles to the axis , and sufficient to form a wedge of 20 degrees , by giving it a second surface duly inclined to the former .
For distinction , this may be called the horizontal wedge .
Next , let the crystal be bisected vertically by a plane passing through two opposite edges of the prism , in order to make two other wedges which are to be cut in different directions from the two portions , and to have each the same angle of ?
o degrees .
Let one of the halves thus obtained be slit in a plane which meets the surface of bisection in one of the edges of the original prism , and consequently , in a line parallel to the axis .
The wedge thus formed may be called a lateral wedge .
Let the remaining half be cut by another plane not vertical , but inclined to the vertical plane at an angle of ?
o0 , and meeting it in a line parallel to the base , or at right angles to the axis .
This may be called a vertical wedge .
We have thus three wedges cut in different directions fat right angles to each other , and , accordingly , having their axes of crystallization differently placed in each .
In the first , or horizontal wedge , the axis is at right angles to the first surface .
In the second , or lateral wedge , the axis is parallel in the first surface , and parallel to its acute edge .
In the third , or vertical wedge , the axis is also in the first surface , but it is at right angles to the acute edge .
An object seen through the first wedge in the direction of the axis , does not appear double ; but , since rays transmitted through the second or third , pass at right angles to the axis , both of these wedges give two images of any object seen through them .
There are obviously three modes in which these wedges may be combined in pairs , by placing two of them together with their acute edges in opposite directions .
The first pair may be represented by L H ; the second by V H ; the third by V L. In the two first cases 1s8 the separation of the images will be the same , since the angles of all the wedges are supposed to be made equal , the compound medium will be comprised under parallel surfaces , so that a ray ordinarily refracted by both , emerges in its original direction ; but since the extraordinary ray is made to deviate about 17 minutes from the ordinary course by the wedge which refracts doubly , this difference is not corrected by the horizontal wedge , so that an object seen through either of the combinations LH or VH , appears doubled to the amount of 17 ' .
The third combination , consisting of the vertical and lateral wedges combined , as in the former cases , with their acute edges in opposite directions , produces an effect perfectly distinct from either of the former combinations ; for by reason of the transverse position of their axes of crystallization , the separation of the two images becomes exactly doubled .
The consequence of that position is , that the pencil ordinarily refracted by the first wedge , is refracted extraordinarily by the second , and that which has been refracted extraordinarily by the first , suffers a similar interchange , and is now ordinarily refracted , so that neither of the divided pencils returns to its true place ; and since one falls as much short of the mean as the other exceeds the truth , they emerge ultimately separated twice the usual difference between the ordinary and extraordinary refractions , and thus present two images separated 34 minutes , just double of that which is effected by either of the preceding combinations .
Though it could scarcely be doubted that this is essentially the construction which was employed by M. ROCHON , there is an additional circumstance concerning the effect of such a pair of wedges when otherwise combined , which fully establishes the identity of the method here proposed with his .
: If the two wedges be placed with their edges together , so as to form by their union a wedge of 4o ?
, the consequence is , that though a pencil of light is in fact divided into two parts by the first wedge , both parts in the end emerge together ; the refraction of one being o+ e , and of the other e+ o : they both deviate from their original direction by exactly the same quantity , and present only a single image of the luminous object ; but it is coloured , as usual , in proportion to the amount of deviation occasioned by the sum of the wedges .
This , without doubt , is the first of two opposite directions mentioned by M. ROGHON , in which he says the double refraction was not perceptible .
Pour cet effet , " says M. ROCHON , " j'employai deux prisms egaux tailles dans ie sens le plus favourable a mes " vues , et en les presentant dans les deux sens opposes je " trouvai , que dans la premiere disposition la double refrac"tion n'etoit pas perceptible , mais , en faisant prendre a mes " prisms un sens inverse , la double refraction de chaque " prisme etoit presque doublee .
" The correspondence in the effect which I have described , renders this passage from M. RocHoN perfectly intelligible ; and I hope the directions above given will be sufficient to enable any one to cut a crystal to the greatest advantage for making this sort of micrometer .
But it must be observed , that in attempting such a construction , great nicety is requisite , not only in cutting the wedges so that the refraction in each shall take place at right angles to the axis , but also in cementing them together , so that the axes of the two wedges shall be at right angles to each other .
And it may farther be remarked , that even then , unless the pencil of light pass truly in the common plane of refraction of the wedges , four images will be formed , so as to destroy the effect of the combination .
From the Press of W. BULMER &amp; Co. Cleveland-row , St. 7ames 's , London .
131

