TRANSACTIONS .
1 .
A Letter from Sir William Hamilton , K. B. F. R. S. to Sir John Pringle , Bart. P. R. S. giving an Account of certain Traces of Volcanos on the Banks of the Rhine .
From on board a Yacht on the Rhine , SIR , near Mayence , Sept. 29 , 1777 .
ASI do not recollect ever to have heard of , or seen , any account of ancient volcanos on the banks of this river , I have the pleasure of sending you a few imperfect remarks , which I have VO L. LXVIII .
B just Read Dec. 11 , just made during a five-days most delightful passage up the Rhine from Bonn to Mayence .
The first certain token of volcanos having existed in this country was evident to me in the court of the place of the Electorpalatine at Dusseldorff , which is at this moment new paving with a lava exactly like that of Etna and Vesuvius .
Upon enquiry I was told , that it came from a quarry belonging to the same Elector at Unkel , between Bonn and Coblenz .
When I arrived at the gates of Cologne , I was struck with the sight of numberless basaltic columns inserted in the walls of the town ; and I remarked , that columns of the same fort were universally used as posts in the streets , and at every door ; they are chiefly pentagonal , but some are hexagonal , and a few have only four sides ; they are very like the basaltes of the Giants Causeway , but without their regular articulations .
I was informed , that they came likewise from the Unkel quarry ; and that the town of Cologne is in possession of an ancient right to as much stone from that quarry as may be wanted for its own use .
I perceived likewise , that the walls of most of the ancient buildings in the town of Cologne were of a tuffa exactly resembling that of Naples and its environs .
This species of stone , as I was informed , abounded on the banks of the Rhine , between Bonn and Coblenz : these circumstances made me keep a sharp look-out , and , on my approach to Bonn , was struck with the volcanic forms of the Sevenbergen , or Seven Mountains , about two leagues from the town , on the other side of the Rhine .
In the walls and streets of Bonn are many of the above mentioned columns of basaltes , and the pavement of the Town is of lava .
The stone in general use for building here , is a very compact one , a hard volcanic tuffa like that of Pianura near Naples , and of the sort called Piperno in Italy ; it is something like free-stone , but , upon near inspection , is mixed with fragments of lava and other volcanic substances .
The day after my arrival at Bonn I visited Wolckenberg , Tackenfelts , and Stromberg , three of the Sevenbergen , and found the two first entirely composed of tuffa , and the last of tuffa and lava : I dare say , by the shape and appearance of the rest of these mountains , I should have found them all equally composed of the same volcanic substances , had my time allowed me to have examined them .
The craters on the mountains I visited are discernable , though much altered , and filled up by time and the rubbish thrown from the quarries that are constantly worked on their tops .
On each side of the Rhine , most of the way from Bonn to Coblenz , particularly between Prohl and Andernach , I perceived high rocks of lava or tuffa .
Where the volcanos had not operated , the mountains and rocks are of slate .
At Erpel , in a mountain close to the river , and opposite the convent situated on an island about three leagues from Bonn , there are some traces of basaltic columns , the quarry seeming to have been nearly exhausted .
I have often thought ( and this exhausted quarry brings it to my mind again ) that the reason why there are scarcely any remains of lavas that have taken the columnal form on Vesuvius and the volcanos near Naples is , that they have been carried off for the use of paving the great Roman roads .
The Appian way is mostly composed of lava of a pentagonal and hexagonal form , and seems evidently made of pieces of such basaltic columns .
These lavas being ready cut by nature , would naturally be carried off first , as the cutting of solid rocks of lava for such purposes is attended with very great expense .
At Unkel , above a league further on towards Coblenz , just opposite the town on the other side of the Rhine , is the great quarry belonging to the Elector Palatine , which affords a most pleasing and uncommon sight : it is entirely composed of the most regular detached basaltic columns , and though millions of these columns have been extracted , as the towns of Cologne and Bonn testify , yet the quarry is very rich .
They lie mostly in an horizon4 tal tal direction , but some are perpendicular , and others inclining towards the Rhine , which , being very low , shows many of them in the bed of the river itself ; they rise from thence into the mountain ( where is the present quarry ) above 100 feet .
They are , as I mentioned before , chiefly pentagonal ; the smallest are in general the most distinct and regular , about six inches diameter ; the largest of the columns that I measured in this quarry ( or indeed that I had remarked any where ) was about three feet long , and about one foot and a half diameter .
The other lavas in this neighbourhood are of the same substance , and some incline to the same forms , but none so regular .
I have not the least doubt but that all basaltes , wheresoever they exist , have originated from subterraneous fire , and are true lavas .
I hope some one , who has more leisure , will examine this curious country particularly .
It is wondeful to me , that such visible tokens of great volcanic productions , in a country so well inhabited , should not have attracted the attention of naturalists more than they seem to have done .
I must not forget to mention another curious circumstance : at Andernach , between Bonn and Coblenz , I saw vast heaps of tuffa ready cut , lying on the banks of the Rhine , and some Dutch vessels loading it ; upon enquiry I found , that a considerable trade of this material is carried on between this town and Holland , where they grind down this sort of stone by wind-mills into a powder , which they use as a puzzolane for all their buildings under water .
This also corresponds with an idea mentioned in one of my former letters to the Royal Society , that the tuffas of Naples were composed of a puzzolane , prepared by volcanic fire deep in the bowels of the earth , and , mixing with water at the time of its explosion , formed a sort of natural mortar or cement .
The Dutch reduce it again to its pristine state of puzzolane .
I flatter myself you will excuse my sending you such crude and hasty remarks , as my time will not allow me to examine further : I only mean to point out this curious country for further investigation .
What I have just seen confirms me in the opinion , that volcanic operations are much greater agents of nature than is generally imagined .

