VIII .
On the primitive Crystals of Carbonate of Lim ; e , BitterSpar , and Iron-Spar .
By Williami Hyde Wollaston , M D. Sec. R. S. Read February 13 , 1812 .
WVHEN I formerly described to the Society a goniometer* upon a new construction for measuring the angles of crystals , I expressed an expectation that we should thereby be enabled to correct former observations made by means of less accurate instruments .
I took occasion to mention one instance of inaccurate measurement in the primitive angle of the common carbonate of lime ; and I have had the satisfaction to find the necessity of a correction , in that instance , confirmed by Mons. MALUS , and admitted by the Abb6 HAiUY , in a work published nearly at the same time .
It is by no means my design to detract in any degree from the merit of that justly celebrated crystallographer , to the surprising accuracy of whose measurements I could , in various instances , bear testimony .
I hope , on the contrary , that in bringing forward two more observations similar to the preceding , and intimately connected with it , I shall offer what will not only appear interesting to crystallographers in general , but will be peculiarly gratifying to the Abb6 HAiY .
In his Trait6 de Mineralogie , and again more recently in his Tableau Comparatif , the same primitive form is assigned Phil. Trans. 80o9 .
-'t Tableau Comparatifdes resultats de la Crystallographie et de I'Analyse Chinique .
to three substances very different in their composition , to carbonate of lime , to magnesian carbonate of lime ( or bitter-spar ) and to carbonate of iron .
It has been objected to Mons. HAUY , that according to his method identity of form should be accompanied by identity of composition , unless the form were one of the common regular solids .
For though in that case any geometrician would readily admit it to be very probable , that many different substances might concur in assuming the same form of cube , of octohedron , or of dodecahedron , &amp;c. there does not appear a corresponding probability that any two dissimilar substances would assume the same form of a particular rhomboid of io05 and a few minutes , to which no such geometric regularity or peculiar simplicity can be ascribed .
But though so accurate a correspondence , as has been hitherto supposed to exist in the measures of the three carbonates above-mentioned , might be justly considered as highly improbable , no degree of improbability whatever attaches to the supposition , that their angles approach each other by some difference , so small as hitherto to have escaped detection .
And this in fact I find to be the case .
Since the angles observable inJfractures of crystalline substances are subject to vary a little at different surfaces , and even in different parts of the same surface ( as is evident from the confused image seen by reflection from them ) , I shall not at present undertake to determine the angles of these bodies to less than five minutes of a degree .
This , indeed , is the smallest division of the goniometer that I usually employ , as I purposely decline giving so much time to these inquiries , as would be requisite for attempting to arrive at greater precisionD The most accurate determination of the anigle of carbonate of lime is probably that of Mons. MALuS , who measured it by means of a repeating circle , and found it to be io5 5 ' .
Ain this , indeed , is the result to which I formerly came by a diff rent method.* If it diffr in any respect from this quantity , I am inclined to think that it will more likely be found to be deficient by a few minutes , than to exceed the measure here assigned ; and accordingly to differ still more widely from those angles which I am about to mention .
In the magnesian carbonate of lime , or bitter-spar , the primitive form is well known to be a regular thomboid , as well as that of carbonate of lime , and so nearly resembling it , as to have been hitherto supposed the same .
I find , however , a diiference of 11 o ' in the measures of these crystals ; for that of the magnesian carbonate is full oG6 , as I have observed with uniformity in at least five different specimens of this substance obtained from situations very distant from each other .
The primitive angle of iron-spar is still more remote from that of the carbonate of lime , which it exceeds by nearly two degrees .
I have examined various specimens of this substance , some pure white , others brown , some transparent , others opake .
That which gives the most distinct image by reflection is of a brownish hue , with the semi-transparency of horn .
It was obtained from a tin mine , called Maudlin Mine , near Lostithiel in Cornwall .
By repeated measurement of small iragmnen-s of this specimen , the agle appears to be so nearly 07 ?
, that I cannot form any judgment webtLher in perfect crystals it will prove to be greater or less than that arngie .
In this instance the carbonate of iron is nearly pure , and so perfectly free from carbonate of lime , as to render it highly probable that in other specimens , having the same angle , but con ainirtg also carbonate of lime or other ingredients intermixed , the form is really dependent on the carbonate of iron alone .
It appears , however , not unlikely that when substances , which agree so nearly in their primitive angle , are intermixed in certain proportions , they may each exert their power ; and may occasion : that confused appearance of crystallization with curved surfaces , known by the name of pearl-spar .
I cannot say that I have made any accurate comparative analyses which may be adduced in support of the hypothesis , that mixtures are more subject to curvature than pure chemical compounds ; but it is very evident , from the numerous analyses that have been made of iron-spar by other chemists , how extremely variable they are in their composition , and consequently how probable it is , that the greater part of them are to be regarded as mixtures ; although it be also possible , that there may exist a triple carbonate of lime and iron as a strict chemical compound .
It seems not unlikely , that there may hereafter be found some carbonate allied to the preceding , which may owe its form to the presence of manganese ; but notwithstanding the liberality which happily prevails in general among those who have it in their power to assist in such inquiries , I have not had the good fortune to meet with any such compound ; and I am unwilling , merely in the hope of making such an addition , any longer to defer communicating an observation , which I hope will be of real utility in the discrimination of bodies that differ so essentially in their composition .

