IV .
On the concentric adjustment of a triple Object-glass .
By WILLIAM HYDE WOLLASTON , M. D. V. P. R. S. Read December 13 , 1821 .
HAVING in my possession a telescope with a triple objectglass of forty-five inches focus , made by DOLLOND in 1771 , I have had a good opportunity of examining the central adjustment of the lenses , and have made trial of a method of correcting that adjustment , which appears not to have been used for that purpose .
When I ventured to take to pieces an instrument that had stood the test of fifty years trial , with uniform approbation of its performance , those who knew the telescope , and who know the difficulty of centering , seemed to consider it an act of rashness which I was likely to regret ; but , by the test which I am about to describe , I felt confident that my object-glass was capable of improvement , and I rested my hopes of success on principles that seemed indisputable .
When any bright object is viewed through a glass of this construction , without an eye-glass , there may be observed , at the same time with the refracted image , a series of fainter images , that are formed by two reflections from the different surfaces ; and , as the position of each of these images is dependent on the curvatures of that pair of surfaces by which it is formed , they appear at different distances from the objectglass .
Since the number of surfaces is six , the number of binary combinations of these surfaces is fifteen ; and just so many images formed by reflection may be discerned , It is manifest , that if the glasses be duly adjusted to each other , so that their axes are correctly coincident , then this series of images must be all situated in the same straight line ; and conversely , that any defective position may be immediately detected by a derangement of the line of images .
A very distinct view of a part of these appearances , fig. i. ( PI .
I. ) is seen by placing the eye close to the object end of the telescope , so as to view the eye-hole illuminated by the flame of a candle set near it .
In this position only ten of them are perceived ; two beyond the refracted image ; four in regular succession nearer to the eye ; and four very small ones close together , at a short distance from the object-glass within the tube .
The remaining five images being some inches exterior to the object-glass , cannot be seen till the eye is withdrawn to a greater distance , and are best observed with the assistance of a lens , fig. 2 .
Each of the two first named images is formed by a pair of surfaces that are curved in the same direction , fig. 3 , of which that which reflects from its concave side is most curved .
The next four are also formed by surfaces that are curved in the same direction ; but in this case , the convex reflecting surface is more curved than the concave , fig. 4 .
The four small images arise from pairs of surfaces , that have their convexities opposed to each other , fig. 5 ; and the five exterior images are owing to those pairs of surfaces which present their concave sides to each other .
In order to explain distinctly the origin of each of these images , I have , in fig. 7 , marked those surfaces which have their concavities toward the tube with large letters , A , B , C , and those curved in the opposite direction with the small letters , d , e , f ; by which means , in fig. 8 , where the origin of each image is indicated , similarity of source in the several groups will be seen from similarity of notation .
The concurrence of a pair of large letters , or a pair of small letters , as BC , or de , shows combination of curvatures in the same direction as in figures and 4 ; unequal letters in the order dC , show opposite curvatures , as of fig. 5 , giving a negative focus ; and the unequal letters , Bf , in the opposite order , represent the opposite concavities of fig. 6 , forming a positive focus beyond the glasses .
The origin of these images was ascertained by giving a small motion to one or the other of the convex glasses .
When the outer glass is inclined , fig. 9 , all the images dependent on A or d are inclined together in the same line gh ; but it may be remarked , that the image Ad is not displaced by this motion , as the relative position of the two surfaces A and d to each other remains unaltered .
In fig. io , the inner glass is represented with a similar inclination ; and with it all images dependent on C orf for their formation , assume an inclined position in the line ik .
By lateral motion of the outer glass , it is only the images dependent on A , that are moved ; for since the motion takes place in the direction of the curve d , which remains in contact with the middle glass , the pcsition of this surface is not altered , fig. z. By similar motion of the inner glass , fig. 12 , those images only that are owing tof are moved , while those from C retain their position .
Any lateral motion given to the central concave has the same effect as moving both the convex glasses together in the opposite direction , and of course the effect is most discernible in the position of an image that is similarly affected by the lateral motion of both .
For instance ; downward motion of the concave , fig. 1 , has the effect of placing a wedge between the two convex glasses from above , so that though each of their inner surfaces still remains in contact with the adjacent concave , their exterior surfaces , A and f , are parted from above , and the image Af , dependent on them both , is doubly elevated .
Hence , the position of Af becomes a delicate test of the due centering of the concave glass , and is the best guide in making the final adjustment .
In my object-glass , which has been the principal subject of my experiments , this image is very happily situated for this purpose , being so near to the outmost image , Ad , that the smallest error in their relative position is with the greatest facility detected .
In order that I might have full command of each part , I had a cell constructed of larger dimensions than ordinary , with two pair of adjusting screws , at right angles to each other , applied to the edges of each glass , so that when the images had been first brought into the same vertical plane by means of one set of screws opposed to each other in the horizontal position , the series might next be adjusted to the same horizontal line by the screws placed above and below , at right angles to the former .
In performing these adjustments , there is another pair of images beside Af , Ad , which deserve particular attention , as their motions are independent , and their contiguity renders any variation of their relative position very perceptible .
In if and 12 , the lines Im , no , mark the irregularities arising from defects in centering of the inner and outer convex glasses , as in fig. i3 , the line p q , shows the error correspondent to a want of adjustment of the middle concave .
By these guides alone I have now so repeatedly restored my object-glass to correct performance after having removed it from its cell , that I may venture , with considerable confidence , to recommend trial of the method to those who wish to perfect glasses of this construction .
The degree of accuracy to be attained will depend upon the smallness and brightness of the light employed .
For the purpose of merely seeing the series of images above described , the entire flame of a candle , not confined by an eye-tube , forms a set of very conspicuous images .
To see that the images are not very irregular , an eye-hole of one-fourth or one-fifth of an inch may be used .
When the intention is to commence adjustment by candle-light , a single eye-glass of one-tenth or one-fifteenth of an inch focus will be found to give a series of neat images very well suited to the purpose ; but , for completing a very nice adjustment , I have found it necessary to employ the light of the sun , and a still smaller lens of one-twentieth or one-thirtieth of an inch focus .
With this view , there is no occasion to point the telescope to the sun , for if his light falls even very obliquely on a small eye-glass , the exterior images A d , and Af , are mere luminous points , so that any error in their relative position is immediately detected .
With this test , as guide for final adjustment , and without farther revision , the telescope on which this method has been tried , -is capable of either separating very small and nearly -0 02 --3\ BC Coo df ------0 --0---iO--- .
2 .
0 ... .o ... .O ... .o : o. -o..-----0 ... .
-O 12 ------.0 ... -0.00-o -- ) o- ?
-o-Z ; ' . ?
, .
, .
: .
, Q:~ .
JY7Zos .
0zr2 . ?
iZI)CCCXX3 .
Z. 7 .
63 .
11 i !
IIJ -----4/ of AC AB *00-C ) tn -^ V a ) 02 X A ... ... ... - ... ..-Q.^..Q .
O--Q-0-0 .
0 &lt; ^- " 0-0-o -0 &gt; .
-= = = ... OO e !
' 0 ... 0 -010 0.zz o-----------k 0 0--o -00 'p ---. .
-. .
12 -.0 --------0-.00-0Oo -------0 00 0 -0.-0 , = L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ~~~~~~~~~~ -I jj ( j-- ... -o-0o7 , ---1 .
-4 __-_@--- .
" -- &gt; - ?
,.--------equal stars as those of 44 Bootis and 0 Coronae , or of exhibiting the minute secondaries of 3 Orionis and 24 Aquilae , with as much distinctness as the state of the air will admit .
The actual limit to its powers cannot be fully ascertained , excepting under such favourable conditions of the atmosphere as do but rarely occur .

