XIX .
On a Periscopic Camera Obscura and Microscope .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M. D. Sec. R. S. Read June i , 1812 .
IALTHOUGH the views , which I originally had of the advantage to be derived from the periscopic construction of spectacles , * naturally suggested to me a corresponding improvement in the camera obscura , by substituting a meniscus for the double convex lens , I have hitherto deferred making it known to others , except as a subject of occasional conversation .
Since in vision with spectacles , as in common vision , the pencil of rays received by the eye in each direction is small , the superiority of that form of glass , which disposes all parts of it most nearly at right angles with the visual ray , admits of distinct demonstration ; but with respect to the camera obscura , where the portion of lens requisite for sufficient illumination , is of considerable magnitude , although it is evident that some improvement may be made in the distinctness of oblique images on the same principles , yet as the focus of oblique rays is far from being a definite point , the degree in which it may be improved is not a fit subject of mathematical investigation .
I have therefore had recourse to experiments , in order to determine by what construction the field of distinct representation may be most extended ; and , I trust , the result will be acceptable to this Society .
I shall take the same opportunity a Phil. Magaz .
Vol. XVII .
Nicholson 's Journal , VII .
143 , to describe an improvement in the construction of the simple microscope , which may also be termed periscopic , as the object of it is to gain an extension of the field of view , upon the same principles as in the preceding instances , namely , by occasioning all pencils to pass as nearly as may be at right angles to the surfaces of the lens .
The mode , however , in which this is effected is apparently somewhat different in the practical execution .
In the common camera obscura , where the images of distant objects are formed on a plane surface to which the lens is parallel , if the surfaces of the lens be both convex , and equally curved ( as in fig. i ) ; and if the distance of the lens be such , that the images formed in the direction of its axis CF be most distinct , then the images of lateral objects are indistinct in a greater or less degree , accordingly as they are more or less remote from the axis .
The causes of this indistinctness may be considered as twofold ; for in the first place , all parts of the plane , excepting the central point , are at a greater distance from the centre of the lens than its principal focus ; and secondly , the point f , to which any pencil of parallel rays passing obliquely through the lens are made to converge , is less distant than the principal focus .
On this account , it is in general best to place the lens at a distance somewhat less than that which would give most distinctness to the central images , because in that case a certain moderate extension is given to the field of view , from an adjustment better adapted to lateral objects , without materially impairing the brightness of those in the centre .
The want of distinctness , however , is even then only diminished in degree , but is not remedied .
The construction , by which I propose to obviate this defect is represented in the second figure , in which are seen the essential parts of a periscopic camera in their due proportion to each other .
The lens is a meniscus , with the curvatures of its surfaces about in the proportion of two to-one , so placed that its concavity is presented to the objects , and its convexity toward the plane on which the images are formed .
The aperture of the lens is four inches , its focus about twenty-two .
There is also a circular opening , two inches in diameter , placed at about one-eighth of the focal length of the lens from its concave side , as the means of determining the quantity and direction of rays that are to be transmitted .
The advantage of this construction over the common camera obscura is such , that no one who makes the comparison , can doubt of its superiority ; but the causes of this may require some explanation .
It has been already observed , that by the common lens , any oblique pencil of rays is brought to a focus at a distance less than that of the principal focus .
But in the construction above described , the focal distance of oblique pencils is not merely as great , but is greater than that of a direct pencil .
For since the effect of the first surface is to occasion divergence of parallel rays , and thereby to elongate the focus ultimately produced by the second surface , and since the degree of that divergence is increased by obliquity of incidence , the focal length resulting from the combined action of both surfaces will be greater than in the centre , if the incidence on the second surface be not so oblique as to itlcrease the convergence .
On this account , the opening E is placed so much nearer to the lens than the centre of its second surface , that oblique rays Of , after being refracted at the first surface , are transmitted through the lens nearly in the direction of its shorter radius ; and hence are made to converge to a point so distant that the image ( at f ) falls very nearly in the same plane with that of an object centrally placed .
In the use of spectacles by long-sighted persons , the course of the rays in the opposite direction is so precisely similar , that the same figure might serve to illustrate the advantages of the periscopic construction .
For the purpose of seeing the extended page of a book ( as at AB ) with least fatigue to the eye , that form of lens will be most beneficial , which renders the rays received from each part of its surface parallel ; and this is effected by the exact counterpart to the preceding arrangement ; for in this case the opening E represents the place of the eye receiving parallel rays from the lens in each direction , instead of transmitting them from a distance towards it .
There is , however , this difference between the two cases , that in the camera obscura a much larger portion of the lens is required to conspire in giving a distinct image of any one object ; so that the conformation best adapted for lateral objects , would not be consistent with distinctness at the centre ; .
and hence arises a limit to the application of the principle .
On the common construction , the whole lens is so formed as to give brilliancy and distinctness at the centre alone , without regard to lateral objects .
In adopting such a deviation from the customary form , as I propose , in favour of a more extended view , some diminution of the aperture is required in order to preserve the desired distinctness at the centre .
In my endeavours to ascertain the most eligible form of meniscus for this purpose , I have assumed sixty degrees to be the field of view required .
But when so large a field is not wanted , then a lens that is less curved will be preferable ; and thei proportion of the radii must be varied according to the angular extent intended to be included .
For the purpose of estimating by what combination of radii any required focal length may be given to a meniscus , I have contrived a diagram by which very much labour of computation may be saved , as a very near result may be obtained by mere inspection .
This contrivance is founded on the well known formula for the focal length of any lens F= ; t : m being a certain multiple obtained by dividing the sine of refraction by the difference of the sines of incidence and refraction .
Hence , in applying this formula to the meniscus , F : R : mr : R--r .
In fig. g , lines expressive of these quantities are so arranged , that by assuming any point F corresponding to the focal length desired , and drawing a line FR through a point R indicating any supposed length of the greater radius , the corresponding length of the other radius .
will be found where the line drawn intersects the middle line in the diagram .
In laying down these lines , the length and position of AF and ARE were assumed at pleasure ; and they were divided into any number of equal parts .
But the position and length of the middle line Ax was adapted with care to the refractive power of plate glass in the following manner .
Since m* 1= 1,98 , a line BC was drawn from the point lo in 1,5Q5the line ARE , parallel to AF , and equal to 19,8 divisions of the primary lines ; so that if r be = io , then the line BC = mr , .
The distance AC being then divided into ten equal parts , with their subdivisions , afforded the means of continuing the same scale to any desired length .
Since the first line BC was laid down parallel to AF , and equal to mr , any other lines drawn through corresponding numbers 7 and 7 , 8 and 8 , &amp;c. will be also parallel , and by preserving due proportion , will correctly represent mr .
Hence in all positions of the line FR , the same similarity of triangles obtains , and the same proportion of F : R : : mr : Rr ; and consequently the focal length , corresponding to any assumed radii , is truly ascertained .
For the purpose of duly proportioning the curvatures of flint-glass , a second line Ay might be laid down in a mode similar to the preceding , by adapting the multiple m=5--_9 !
to the different density of this glass .
With respect to the construction of a microscope on periscopic principles , I believe the contrivance to be equally new with the former , and equally advantageous .
The great desideratum in employing high magnifiers is sufficiency of light ; and it is accordingly expedient to make the aperture of the little lens , as large as is consistent with distinct vision .
But if the object to be viewed , is of such magnitude as to appear under an angle of several degrees on each side of the centre , the requisite distinctness cannot be given to the whole surface by a common lens , in consequence of the confusion occasioned by oblique incidence of the lateral rays , excepting by means of a very small aperture , and proportionable diminution of light .
In order to remedy this inconvenience , I conceived that the perforated metal , which limits the aperture of the lens , might be placed with advantage in its centre ; and accordingly I procured two platlo-convex lenses ground to the same radius , 3C ~ and applying their plane surfaces on opposite sides of the same aperture in a thin piece of metal ( as is represented by a section , fig. 4 ) , I produced the desired effect ; having virtually a double convex lens so contrived , that the passage of oblique pencils was at right angles with its surfaces , as well as the central pencil .
With a lens so constructed , the perforation that appeared to give the most perfect distinctness was about one-fifth part of the focal length in diameter ; and when such an aperture is well centered , the visible field is at least as much as twenty degrees in diameter .
, It is true , that a portion of light is lost by doubling the number of surfaces ; but this is more than compensated by the greater aperture , which , under these circumstances , is compatible with distinct vision .
Beside the foregoing instances of the adaptation of periscopic principles , I should not omit to notice their application to the camera lucida ; as there is one variety in its form , that was not noticed in the description which I originally gave of that instrument.* In drawing , by means of the camera lucida , distant objects are seen by rays twice reflected ( d , fig. 5 ) , at the same time and in the same direction that rays ( e ) are received from the paper and pencil by the naked eye .
The two reflections are effected in the interior of a four-sided glass prism , at two posterior surfaces inclined to each other at an angle of 135 degrees .
In the construction formerly described , the two other surfaces of the prism are both plane , through which the rays are simply transmitted at their entrance and exit .
But since an eye that is adjusted for seeing the paper and pencil , which are at a short distance , cannot see more distant objects dis* Nicholson 's Journal , XVII .
p. i , Phil , Magaz .
XXVII p. 343 .
376 K 7 ~~~~~~ NN* 7/ / '^ o it/ /'/ t ow-wo } ~/ 7~~ / /~. . ?
... f ' , , , , , .
, ,..* j. .
j ... jJ'~ ~ X , 0aaK " !
/ 1 I. , , ... ?
:7 ~~ ~~1.11.- " , -. .
" , ,----~----- " , ,.- , . ? ? ?
?- ?
-I ... ... I---------------~I-.~.-----i '--------tinctly without the use of a concave glass , it may be assisted in that respect by a due degree of concavity given to either , or to both the transmitting surfaces of the prism .
It is , however , to the upper surface alone that this concavity is given ; for since the eye is then situated on the side toward the centre of curvature , it receives all the benefit that is proposed from the periscopic principles .

