XV .
Account of the Changes that have happened , during the last Twenty-five Tears , in the relative Situation of Double-stars ; with an Investigation of the Cause to which they are owing .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F. R. S. Read June 9 , 1803 .
IN the Remarks on the Construction of the Heavens , contained in my last Paper on this subject , * I have divided the various objects which astronomy has hitherto brought to our view , into twelve classes .
The first comprehends insulated stars .
As the solar system presents us with all the particulars that may be known , respecting the arrangement of the various subordinate celestial bodies that are under the influence of stars which I have called insulated , such as planets and satellites , asteroids and comets , I shall here say but little on that subject .
It will , however , not be amiss to remark , that the late addition of two new celestial bodies , has undoubtedly enlarged our knowledge of the construction of the system of insulated stars .
Whatever may be the nature of these two new bodies , we know that they move in regular elliptical orbits round the sun , It is not in the least material whether we call them asteroids , as I have proposed ; or planetoids , as an eminent astronomer , in a letter to me , suggested ; or whether we admit them at once into the class of our old seven large planets .
In the latter case , however , we must recollect , that if we would speak with precision , See Phil , Trans. for 802o , p. 477 .
they should be called very small , and exzodiacal ; for , the great inclination of the orbit of one of them to the ecliptic , amounting to 35 degrees , is certainly remarkable .
That of the other is also considerable ; its latitude , the last time I saw it , being more than 15 degrees north .
These circumstances , added to their smallness , show that there exists a greater variety of arrangement and size among the bodies which our sun holds in subordination , than we had formerly been acquainted with , and extend our knowledge of the construction of the solar , or insulated sidereal system .
It will not be required that I should add any thing farther on the subject of this first article of my classification ; I may therefore immediately go to the second , which treats of binary sidereal systems , or real double stars .
We have already shown the possibility that two stars , whatsoever be their relative magnitudes , may revolve , either in circles or ellipses , round their common centre of gravity ; and that , among the multitude of the stars of the heavens , there should be many sufficiently near each other to occasion this mutual revolution , must also appear highly probable .
But neither of these considerations can be admitted in proof of the actual existence of such binary combinations .
I shall therefore now proceed to give an account of a series of observations on double stars , comprehending a period of about 25 years , which , if I am not mistaken , will go to prove , that many of them are not merely double in appearance , but must be allowed to be real binary combinations of two stars , intimately held together by the bond of mutual attraction .
It will be necessary to enter into a certain theory , by which these observations ought to be examined , that we may find to what cause we should attribute such changes in the position , or distance , of double stars , as will be reported ; and , in order to make the required principles very clear , I shall give them in a few short and numbered sentences , that they may be referred to hereafter .
In Plate VII .
Fig. i , let us call the place of the sun , which may also be taken for that of the observer , 0 .
In the centre of an orbit or plane NFSP is a Geminorum ; and , if any other star is to be examined , we have only to exchange the letter a for that by which such double star is known .
This letter is always understood to represent the largest of the two stars which make up the double star ; and a general expression for its smaller companion will be x. N , F , S , P , represent the positions of the different parts of the heavens , with respect to a , north , following , south , and preceding ; and the small letters n , f , s p , stand for the same directions with respect to 0 .
xM P , is the angle of position of the two stars x and o , with the parallel FP .
As the motion of an observer affects the relative situation of objects , we have three bodies to consider , in our investigation of the cause of the changes which will be pointed out ; the sun , the large star , and the small star , or , as we have shortly called them , 0 , a , x. This admits of three cases : a motion of one of the three bodies ; another , of two ; and a third , of all the three bodies together .
We shall now point out the consequences that will arise in each of the cases .
Single Motions .
No. 1 .
Motion of x. When a and 0 are at rest , the motion of x may be assumed , so as perfectly to explain any change of the distance of the two stars , and of their angie of position .
MDccciII , Yy 34 No. 2 .
Motion of o. When x and 0 are at rest , and a has a motion , either towards P , N , F , or S , then the effect of it , whatever may be the angle Pa 0 , will be had by entering the following Table , with the direction of the given motion .
Motion .
Distance .
Angle .
Quadrants .
aP --+ ist and 4th F+ -12 -3-4 v X,1 3 .
N1 -I--aN ' + +3 --4 ____ r --,3 I-4 No. 3 .
Motion of 0 .
Ist case .
When a and x are at rest , and the angle P0 is go degrees , a proper motion of 0 , towards either p , f , n , or s , which will be extremely small when compared with the distance of O from a , can have no effect on the apparent distance , or angle of position , of the two stars ; and therefore no other motion , composed of the directions we have mentioned , will induce a change in the comparative situation of a and x. 2d case .
When the plane PNFS is oblique to the ray aO , and the angle PO more than 90 degrees , the effect of the motion of 0 will be had by the following Table .
Motion .
Distance .
Angle .
Quadrants .
-__ __ n. ' , Op , +_I 1st and 2d P. : f. -- , 4 Of -1 -$3 --.4 , .
2 ---4. .
Os -4 i~ } r 11v ~a i s4 gd case .
When the following Table must angle PaO is be used .
less than 9o degrees , the Double A ; otions .
No. 4 .
If we admit different motions in two of our three bodies , and if the ratio of the velocities , the directions of the Yy motions , and the ratio of the distances of the bodies be given quantities , a supposition in which we admit their concurrence , may explain the phenomena of a double star , but can never be probable .
Motions of the three Bodies .
No. 5 .
If we admit different motions in every one of the three bodies , 0 , a , x , and if the velocities and directions of the motions , as well as the relative distances of the three bodies are determined , an hypothesis which admits the existence of such motions and situations , may resolve the phenomena of a double star , but cannot have any pretension to probability .
The compass of this Paper will not allow me to give the observations of my double stars at full length ; I shall therefore , in the examination of every one of them , only state those particulars which will be required for the purpose of investigating the cause of the changes that have taken place , either in the distance , or angle of position , of the two stars of which the double star is composed .
As the arguments in the case of most of these stars will be nearly the same , it may be expected , that the first two or three which are to be examined will take up a considerable space ; and the number of double stars , in which I have already ascertained a change , amounting to more than fifty , it will not be possible to give them all in one paper ; I shall therefore confine the present one to a moderate length , and leave it open for a continuation at a future opportunity .
a Geminorum .
From my earliest observations on the distance of the two stars which make up the double star in the head of Castor , given in the first of my catalogues of double stars , we find , that about 23 years and a half ago , they were nearly two diameters of the large star asunder .
These observations have been regularly continued , from the year 1778 to the present time , and no alteration in the distance has been perceived : the stars are now still nearly 2 diameters of the large one asunder .
It will be necessary to enter a little into the practicability of ascertaining distances by a method of estimation apparently so little capable of precision .
From a number of observations and experiments I have made on the subject , it is certain that the apparent diameter of a star , in a reflecting telescope , depends chiefly upon the four following circumstances : the aperture of the mirror with respect to its focal length ; the distinctness of the mirror ; the magnifying power ; and the state of the atmosphere at the time of observation .
By a contraction of the aperture , we can increase the apparent diameter of a star , so as to make it resemble a small planetary disk .
If distinctness should be wanting , it is evident that the image of objects will not be sharp and well defined , and that they will consequently appear larger than they ought .
The effect of magnifying power is , to occasion a relative increase of the vacancy between two stars that are very near each other ; but the ratio of the increase of the distance is not proportional to that of the power , and sooner or later comes to a maximum .
The state of the atmosphere is perhaps the most material of the four conditions , as we have it not in our power to alter it .
The effects of moisture , damp air , and 345 haziness , ( which have been related in a paper where the causes that often prevent the proper action of mirrors were discussed , ) show the reason why the apparent distance of a double star should be affected by a change in the atmosphere .
The alteration in the diameter of Arcturus , extending from the first to the last of the ten images of that star , in the plate accompanying the abovementioned paper , * shows a sufficient cause for an increase of the distance of two stars , by a contraction of their apparent disks .
A skilful observer , however , will soon know what state of the air is most proper for estimations of this kind .
I have occasionally seen the two stars of Castor , from ito 2 and 2diameters asunder ; but , in a regular settled temperature and clear air , their distance was always the same .
The other three causes which affect these estimations , are at our own disposal ; an instance of this will be seen in the following trial .
I took ten different mirrors of 7 feet focal length , each having an aperture of 6 , g inches , and being charged with an eye-glass which gave the telescope a magnifying power of 46o .
With these mirrors , one after another , the same evening , I viewed the two stars of our double star ; and the result was , that with every one of them , the stars were precisely at an equal distance from each other .
These mirrors were all sufficiently good to show minute double stars well ; and such a trial will consequently furnish us with a proper criterion , by which we may ascertain the goodness of our telescope , and the clearness of the atmosphere required for these observations .
To those who have not been long in the habit of observing double stars , it will be necessary to mention , that , when first seen , they will appear nearer together than after a certain time ; nor is it so soon as might be ?
See Phil. Trans. for 1803 , page 232 , Plate IlIl expected , that we see them at their greatest distance .
I have known it to take up two or three months , before the eye was sufficiently acquainted with the object , to judge with the requisite precision .
Whatever may be the difficulties , or uncertainties , attending the method of determining the distance of two close stars by an estimation of the apparent diameter , it must however be confessed , that we have no other way of obtaining the same end with so much precision .
Our present instance of a Geminorum , will show the degree of accuracy of which such estimations are capable , and at the same time prove , that the purpose for which I shall use the estimated interval between the two stars will be sufficiently answered .
By an observation of the loth of May , 1781 , we have the diameter of the largest of the two stars to that of the smallest as 6 to 5 ; and , according to several measures I have taken with the micrometer , we may admit their distance , diameters included , to be five seconds .
Then , as the vacancy between the two stars is nearly , but not quite , 2 diameters of the large one , I shall value it at ij- .
From this we calculate , that the diameter of the large star , under the circumstances of our estimation , is nearly 1",35 : so that an error of one quarter of such a diameter , which is the most we can admit , will not exceed o",34 .
Nor is it of much consequence , if the measure of 5 " should not be extremely correct ; as a small mistake in that quantity will not materially affect the error of estimation by the diameter , which , from what has been said , if the measure was faulty to a second , would not amount to more than one-fifteenth part of it .
Having thus ascertained that no perceptible change in the distance of the stars has taken place , we are now to examine 347 the angle of position .
In the year 1779 , it was 32e 47 ' north preceding ; and , by a mean of the three last measures I have taken , it is now only 1o ? ?
53 ' .
In the space of about 23 years and a half , therefore , the angle of position has manifestly undergone a diminution , of no less than 21 ? ?
54 ' ; and , that this change has been brought on by a regular and gradual decrease of the angle , will be seen when the rest of the measures come to be examined .
The accuracy of the micrometer which has been used , when the angles of position were taken , being of the utmost importance , it becomes necessary to ascertain how far it will be safe to rely on the result of the measures .
It might be easily shown that , in the day time , a given angle , delineated on a card , and stuck up at a convenient distance , may be full as accurately measured by a telescope furnished with this micrometer , as it can be done by any known method , when the card is laid on a table before us ; but this would not answer my purpose .
For , objects in motion , like the stars , especially when at a distance from the pole , cannot be measured with such steadiness as those which are near us , and at rest .
The method of illuminating the wires , and other circumstances , will likewise affect the accuracy of the angles that are measured , especially when the distance of the stars is very small .
I shall therefore have recourse to astronomical observations , in order to see what the micrometer has actually done .
January 22 , 1802 .
The position of A Orionis was taken .
ist measure , 52 ? ?
38 ' south preceding ; ad measure , 54 ?
I ' .
Mean of the two measures , 53 ? ?
26 ' .
Deviation of the measures from the mean , 48 ' .
March 4 , 1802o 11 Monocerotis .
ist measure , 28 ? ?
18 ' south following ; sd measure , 26 ? ?
49 ' .
Mean of the two , 27 ? ?
34 ' .
Deviation from the mean , 45 ' .
February 9 , 1803 .
a Geminorum .
ist measure , 6 ?
ii ' north preceding ; 2d measure , 4 ?
48 ' .
Mean of the two , 5 ? ?
29 ' .
Deviation from the mean , 41 ' .
September 6 , 18o2 .
~ Coronas .
ist measure , 89 ? ?
42 ' north following ; ed measure , 89 ? ?
38 ' .
Mean of the two , 89 ? ?
40 ' .
Deviation from the mean , 2 ' .
When these observations are considered , we shall not err much if we admit that , in favourable circumstances , and with proper care , the micrometer , by a mean of two measures , will give the position of a double star true to nearly one degree ; but , as the opportunities of taking very accurate measures are scarce , it will be necessary to have recourse to some more discordant observations .
February 18 , 180 .
/ 3 Orionis .
ist measure , 72 ? ?
58 ' south preceding ; d measure , 67 ?
24 ' .
Mean of the two , 700 1l ' .
Deviation from the mean , i ? ?
47 ' But a memorandum to the observation says , that the evening was not favourable .
We may therefore admit , that in the worst circumstances which can be judged proper for measuring at all , an error in the angle of position by two measures will not amount to three degrees .
It will be remarked , when we come to compare single measures which have been taken on different nights , that they are somewhat more discordant ; but I have not ventured to reject them on that account , except in cases where it was pretty evident that some mistake in reading off , or other accident to which all astronomical observations are liable , was to be apprehended .
Nor can such disagreements materially affect the conclusions I have drawn , when it appears that the deviations happen sometimes to be on one side , and sometimes on the other side , of the true angle of position .
For , since that angle is not a thing that will change in the course of a few nights , the excess of one measure will serve to correct the defect of another ; and we are not to think it extraordinary , when stars are so near together , and their motion through the field of view ( in consequence of the high magnifying power we are obliged to use ) so quick , that we should now and then even fall short of that general accuracy which may be had by a careful use of the micrometer .
I shall now enter into an examination of the cause of the change in the angle of position of the small star near Castor .
A revolving star , it is evident , would explain in a most satisfactory manner , a continual change in the angle of position , without an alteration of the distance .
But this , being a circumstance of which we have no precedent , ought not to be admitted without the fullest evidence .
It will therefore be right to examine , whether the related phenomena cannot be satisfactorily explained by the proper motions of the stars , or of the sun .
Single Motions .
( a ) The three bodies we have to consider , are 0 , o , and x ; and , supposing them to be placed as they were observed to be in the year 1779 ; the angle a P , in Fig. i , will be 32 ? ?
471 north preceding .
We are at liberty to let the angle Pa0 be what will best answer the purpose .
Then , in order to examine the various hypotheses that may be formed , according to the arrangement of the principles we have given , we shall begin with No. i ; and , as this admits that all phenomena may be resolved by a proper motion of x , let us suppose this star to be placed any where far beyond a , but so as to have been seen , in the year 1779 , where the angle of position , 32 ? ?
47 ' north preceding , and the observed distance , near 2 diameters of the large star , required it .
With a proper velocity , let it be in motion towards the place where it may now be seen at the same distance from Castor , but under an angle of position only 10 ? ?
53 north preceding .
It may then be admitted , that a small decrease of the distance which would happen at the time when the angle of position was 21 50 ' , could not have been perceived ; so that the gradual change in the observed angle of position , as well as the equality of the distance of the two stars , will be sufficiently accounted for .
But the admission of this hypothesis requires , that a Geminorum and the solar system should be at rest ; and , by the observations of astronomers , which I shall soon have occasion to mention , neither of these conditions can be conceded .
( b ) If , according to No. 2 , we admit the motion of a , we shall certainly be more consistent with the observations which astronomers have made on the proper motion of this star ; * and , as a motion of the solar system , which I shall have occasion to mention hereafter , has not been rigidly proved , it may , for the sake of argument , be set aside ; nor has a proper motion of the star x been any where ascertained .
The retrograde annual proper motion of Castor , in right ascension , according to Dr. MASKELYNE , is o",105 .
This , in about 23j years , during which ' See TOBIM^ MAYERI Opera inedita .
De motufixarum proprio , page 80 .
Also Dr. MAS K ELY N E ' first Volume of Observations .
Explanation and Use of the Tables , page iv .
Or Mr. WOLLASTON'S Astronomical Catalogue , end of the Preface .
Likewise Connoissance des Temps pour 1'Annee VI .
page 203 .
Sir Ie Mouvement partitulier propre a dijffrenies Etoiles ; par Mons , Da Ls LA Do .
z2 351 time I have taken notice of the angle of position and distance of the small star , will amount to a change of nearly 2",447 Then , if we enter the short Table I have given in No. 2 , with the motion aP , we find , that in the first quadrant , where the small star is placed , the distance between the two stars will be diminished , and the angle of position increased .
But since it appears , by my observations , that the distance of the stars is not less now than it was in 1780 ; and that , instead of an increase in the angle of position , it has actually undergone a diminution of nearly 22 degrees ; it follows , that the motion of a Geminorum in right ascension , will not explain the observed alterations in the situation of this double star .
If , according to Mr. DE LA LANDE'S account , * we should also consider the annual proper motion of a in declination , which is given o",12 towards the north , we shall find , by entering our Table with the motion aN , amounting to 2"82 , that the distance of the two stars will be still more diminished ; but that , on the contrary , the angle of position will be much lessened ; and , by combining the two motions together , the apparent disks of the two stars should now be a little more than one-tenth of a second from each other , and the angle of position 35 degrees south preceding .
But , since neither of these effects have taken place , the hypothesis cannot be admitted .
( c ) That the sun has a proper motion in space , I have shown with a very high degree of evidence , in a paper which was read at the Royal Society about twenty years ago.t The same opinion was before , but only from theoretical principles , hinted at by Mr. DE LA LAND , and also by the late Dr. WILsoN , of Glasgow ; " and has , since the publication of my paper , been taken up by several astronomers , t who agree that such a motion exists .
In consequence of this , let us now , according to No. 3 , assign to the sun a motion in space , of a certain velocity and direction .
Admitting therefore a and x to be at rest , let the angle PaO be 90 degrees ; then , by the ist case of No. 3 , we find that none of the observed changes of the angles of position will admit of an explanation .
There is moreover an evident concession of the point in question , in the very supposition of the above angle of go degrees ; for , if x be at the same distance as M from the sun , and no more than 5 " from that star , its real distance ; compared to that of the sun from the star , will be known ; and , since that must be less than the 40 thousandth part of our distance from Castor , these two stars must necessarily be within the reach of each other 's attraction , and form a binary system .
( d ) Let us now take the advantage held out by the ad case of No. 3 , which allows us to place x far behind a ; in which situation , the angle PaO will be more than go degrees .
The star x being less than a , renders this hypothesis the more plausible .
Now , as a motion of Castor , be it real or apparent , has actually been ascertained , we cannot set it aside ; the real motion of 0 , therefore , in order to account for the apparent one of a , must be of equal velocity , and in a contrary direction ; that is , when decomposed , 0o ' , lo towards f , and 0 , 12 , towards s. The effect of the sun 's moving from 0 towards f , according to * See my note in Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXIII .
page z83 .
L See Astronomishes Yahrbucbfiir das Jahr 1786 ; seite 259 .
Uber diefortruicku , g ~unseres Sonnen .
S3ystems , von Ha RR^ N Professor PR EVOST .
Und fiir das JabJr 180 site 113 .
3,3 ' the ist Table in No. 3 , is , that the distance between the two stars will be diminished , and the angle of position increased .
But these are both contrary to the observations I have given .
The motion of O in declination towards s , according to the same Table , will still diminish the distance of the two stars , but will also diminish the angle of position .
Then , since a motion in right ascension increases the angle , while that in declination diminishes it , the small star may be placed at such a distance that the difference in the parallax , arising from the solar motion , shall bring the angle of position , in 233 years , from 2o 47 ' to lo ? ?
53 ' ; which will explain the observed change of that angle .
The distance of the star x , for this purpose , must be above 2times as much as that of a from us .
But , after having in this manner accounted for the alteration of the angle of position , we are in the next place , to examine the effect which such a difference of parallax must produce in the apparent distance of the two stars from each other .
By a graphical method , which is quite sufficient for our purpose , it appears , that the union of the two motions in right ascension and declination , must have brought the two stars so near , as to be only about half a diameter of the large star from each other ; or , to express the same in measures , the centres of the stars must now be 1",8 nearer than they were 23j-years ago .
But this my observations cannot allow ; for we have already shown , that any change of more than 3 or 4-tenths of a second must have been perceived .
If , on the other hand , we place the star x at such a distance that the solar parallax may only bring it about 4-tenths of a second nearer to a , which is a quantity we may suppose to have escaped our notice in estimating the apparent distance of the two stars , then will the angle of position be above 2o degrees too large .
This shows , that no distance , beyond Castor , at which we can place the star , will explain the given observations .
( e ) The last remaining trial we have to examine , is to suppose x to be nearer than a ; the angle P O , will then be less than 90 degrees ; and the effect of a motion of O towardsf , by the 2d Table in No. 3 , will be an increase of the distance of the two stars , and a diminution of their angle of position .
But the motion Os , which is also to be considered , will add to the increase of the distance , and counteract the diminution of the angle .
It is therefore to be examined , whether such an increase of distance as we can allow to have escaped observation , will explain the change which we know to have happened in the angle , during the last 23eyears .
By the same method of compounding the two motions as before , it immediately appears , than we cannot place the small star more than about i-tenth of the distance O on this side of Castor , without occasioning such an increase of the apparent distance of the two stars as cannot possibly be admitted ; and that , even then , the angle of position , instead of being less , will be a few degrees larger , at the end of g2j years , than it was at the beginning .
This hypothesis , therefore , like all the foregoing ones , must also be given up , as inconsistent with my observations .
It is moreover evident , that the observations of astronomers on the proper motion of the stars in general , will not permit us to assume the solar motion at pleasure , merely for the sake of accounting for the changes which have happened in the appearances of a double star .
The proper motion of Castor , therefore , cannot be entirely ascribed to a contrary motion of the sun .
For we can assign no reason why the proper motion of this star alone , in preference , for instance , to that of Arcturus , 351115r of Sirius , and of many others , should be supposed to arise from a motion of the solar system .
Now , if they are all equally entitled to partake of this motion , we can only admit it in such a direction , and of such a velocity , as will satisfy the mean direction and velocity of the general proper motions of the stars ; and place all deviations to the account of a real proper motion in each star separately .
Double Motion .
( f ) In order to explain the phenomena of our double star , according to No. 4 , by the motion of two bodies , for instance a and x , it will be required that they both should move in given directions ; that the velocities of their motions should be in a given ratio to each other ; and that this ratio should be compounded with the ratio of their distances from O ; a supposition which must certainly be highly improbable .
To show this with sufficient evidence , let us admit that , according to the best authorities , the annual proper motion of Castor iso " , o5 in right ascension , and o " , i2 in declination towards the north .
Then , as the small star , without changing its distance , has moved through an angle of 21 ? ?
54 ' , the only difference in the two motions of these stars , will be expressed by the extent of the chord of that angle .
To produce the required effect , it is therefore necessary that the motion of a , which is given , should regulate that of the small star , whose relative place at the end of ~g$ years is also given .
Then , as a moves in an angle of 53 31 ' north preceding , and with a velocity which , being expressed by the space it would describe in 23years , will be 3",51 , it is required that x shall move in an angle of 29 ? ?
25 ' .
, likewise north preceding , and with a velocity of 3",1o .
The ratio of the velocities , therefore , and the directions of the motions , are equally given .
But this will not be sufficient for the purpose : their distance from 0 must also be taken into consideration .
It has been shown , that the two stars cannot be at an equal distance from us , without an evident connection ; it will therefore be necessary for those who will not allow this connection , to place one of them nearer to us than the other .
But , as the motions which have been assumed , when seen from different distances , will subtend lines whose apparent magnitudes will be in the inverse ratio of the assumed distances , it is evident that this ratio , if the motions are given , must also be a given one ; or that , if the distances be assumed , the ratio of the motions must be compounded with the ratio of the distances .
How then can it be expected that such precise conditions should be made good , by a concurrence of circumstances owing to mere chance ?
Indeed , if we were inclined to pass by the difficulties we have considered , there is still a point left which cannot be set aside .
The motion of the solar system , although its precise direction and velocity may still be unknown , can hardly admit of a doubt ; we have therefore a third motion to add to the former two , which consequently will bring the case under the statement contained in our 7th number , and will be considered hereafter .
( g ) If we should intend to change our ground , and place the two motions in O and x , it will then be conceded , that the motion of a is only an apparent one , which owes its existence to the real motion of the sun .
By this , the effect of the solar parallax on any star at the same distance will be given ; and it cannot be difficult to assume a motion in x , which shall , with the effect of this given parallax , produce the apparent motion , in the direction of a chord from the first to the last angle of position pointed out by my observations ; taking care , however , not to place the stars and x at the same distance from us ; and using the inverse ratio of the solar parallax as a multiple in the assigned motion .
For instance , let the sun have a motion of the velocity expressed as before by 3",5j , and in a direction which makes an angle of 53g 31 ' south following with the parallel of a Geminorum ; and let the small star x have a real motion in an angle of 18 ? ?
40 ' south preceding from the parallel of its situation , and with a real velocity which , were it at the distance of o , would carry it through 1",89 .
Then , if the distance of the small star be to that of the large one as .
to 2 , the effect of the solar parallax upon it will be of its effect upon M ; that is , while , which is at rest , appears to move over a space of 3,51 &gt; in an angle of 53 ?
g3 ' north preceding , the parallactic change of place in x will be 2",34 in the same direction .
This , though only an apparent motion , will be compounded with the real motion we have assigned to it , but which , at the distance of a , will only appear as 1",26 ; and the joint effect of both will bring the star from the place in which it was seen 23 years ago , to that where now we find it situated .
, in the same time , will appear to have had an annual proper motion of o",1o5 in right ascension , and o",12 in declination towards the north ; and thus all phenomena will be explained .
From this statement , we may draw a consequence of considemble importance .
If we succeed , in this manner , in accounting for the changes observed in the relative situation of the two stars of a double star , we shall fail in proving them to form a binary system ; but , in lieu of it , we shall gain two other points , o equal value to astronomers .
For , as a Geminorum , according to the foregoing hypothesis , is a star that has no real motion , its apparent motion will give us the velocity and direction of the motion of the solar system ; and , this being obtained , we shall also have the relative parallax of every star , not having a proper motion , which is affected by the solar motion .
Astronomical observations on the proper motion of many different stars , however , will not allow us to account for the motion of a Geminorum in the manner which the foregoing instance requires ; the hypothesis , therefore , of its being at rest , must be rejected .
( b ) If we place our two motions in 0 and a , we shall be led to the same conclusion as in the last hypothesis .
The known proper motion of a , and the situations of the small star in 1779 and 1803 , given by my observations , will ascertain the apparent motion of x , now supposed to be at rest .
Then , since the change in the place of x must be entirely owing to the effect of parallax , it will consequently give us , in the same manner as before , the quantity and direction of the motion of the solar system , and the relative distances of all such stars as are affected by it .
But , here again , the solar motion required for the purpose is such as cannot be admitted ; and the hypothesis is not maintainable..Motion of the three Bodies .
( i ) There is now but one case more to consider , which is , according to No. 5 , to assig ' real motions to all our three bodies ; and this may be done as follows .
Suppose the sun to move towards x Herculis , with the annual velocity i. Let the apparent motion of a Geminorum be as it is stated in the astronomical tables before mentioned ; but suppose it to arise from a composition of its real motion with the effect of the S59 systematical parallax , as we may call that apparent change of place of stars which is owing to the motion of the solar system .
Let the real motion of x , aided by the effect of the same parallax , be the cause of the changes in the angle of position which my observations have given .
We may admit the largest of the two stars of our double star to be of the second magnitude ; and , as we are not to place x too near a , we may suppose its distance from O to be to that of a from the same as 3 to 2 .
In this case , O will move from the parallel of a , in an angle of 60o 37 north following , with an apparent annual velocity of,4536 .
The motion of a in right ascension , may be entirely ascribed to solar parallax ; but its change of declination , cannot be accounted for in the same manner .
Let us therefore admit that the solar velocity , in the direction we have calculated , will produce an alpparent retrograde motion in a , which , in 231 years will amount to e " , o85 in right ascension .
But the same parallax will also occasion a change in declination , towards the south preceding , of 3",701 ; and , as this will not agree with the observed motion of o , we must account for it by a proper motion of this star directly towards the north .
The real annual velocity required for this purpose , must be 1,3925 .
The apparent motion of x , by parallax , at the distance we have placed this star , will be 2",832 towards the south preceding ; and , by assigning to it an annual proper motion of the velocity 1,3354 , in the direction of 73 ?
io ' north preceding its own parallel , the effect of the solar parallax and this proper motion together , will have caused the small star , in appearance , to revolve round c , so as to have produced all the changes in the angle of position which my observations have given ; and , at the same time , a will have been seen to move from its former place , at the annual rate of o",105 in right ascension , and o " , 1 in declination towards the north .
In this manner , we may certainly account for the phenomena of the changes which have taken place with the two stars of a Geminorum .
But the comp)licated requisites of the motions which have been exposed to our view , must surely compel every one who considers them to acknowledge , that such a combination of circumstances involves the highest degree of improbability in the accomplishment of its conditions .
On the other hand , when a most simple and satisfactory explanation of the same phenomena may be had by the effects of mutual attraction , which will support the moving bodies in a permanent system of revolution round a common centre of gravity , while at the same time they follow the direction of a proper motion which this centre may have in space , it will hardly be possible to entertain a doubt to which hypothesis we ought to give the preference .
As I have now allowed , and even shown , the possibility that the phenomena of the double star Castor may be explained by proper motions , it will appear that , notwithstanding my foregoing arguments in favour of binary systems , it was necessary , on a former occasion , to express myself in a conditional manner , * when , after having announced the contents of this Paper , I added , " t should these observations be found sufficientty conclusive ; " for , if there should be astronomers who would rather explain the phenomena of a small star appearing to revolve round Castor by the hypothesis we have last examined , they may certainly claim the right of assenting to what appears to them most probable .
I shall now enter into a more detailed examination of the several angles of position I have taken at different times , and show that they agree perfectly well with the appearances which must arise from the revolution of a small star round Castor .
A calculation of these angles may be had , by finding the annual motion of the small star , from the change of 2e ? ?
5 ' , which has been shown to have taken place in 23 years and 142 days .
Accordingly , I have given , in the ist column of the following Table , the time when the angles were taken .
In the 2d , are the angles as they were found by measure ; they are all in the north-preceding quadrant .
The 3d column contains a calculation from the annual motion of 56 ' , 18 , obtained as before mentioned : it shows what these angles should have been , according to our present supposition of a revolving star .
And the last column gives the difference between the observed and calculated angles .
Observed tCalcutlated I Times of te observations .
aObglesr anC les .
Differences .
Nov 5 , 1779 3 _[ 47'L 3%0 ? ?
4 " ' i ?
o ' Feb. 23 , 1791 | 57 22 I. +o 46 Feb. 26 , 1792 7 i6 21 68 Dec. 15 , 7i95 13 51 17 42 -4,.3 50 Mi arl 26 , 18 8 13 41 +4 27 -'\ 'pril ' 23,.iSoo J '0O 0 1]3.'37 i37f Dec.31 , '180 78J 1,2 -4 Jan. 10 , 1802 110 18 Jan. 23 , 1802 8l 11 59 I1 31 Feb. 28 , i802 13 0o j 53 17 -Feb .
iI , , o7 18.31 i 3 : March 23 , 180o3 13 232 10 54 J99i March 27 , 18oq 10 53 10 53 o o.r ?
1L 1._ : .
rrrrrll : : r-- : 1_ I- ?
..I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V .
111- , On looking over the 4th column of this table , it will be found , that the differences between the observed and calculated angles are not greater than may be expected , considering that most of the early measures are single , and cannot have the accturacy which may be obtained by repetition .
Even as they are , we must acknowledge them sufficient to ascertain the gradual change in the ang !
e of position of the two stars .
In one place , the difference amounts to six degrees ; but it will soon appear , that a more accurate annual motion gives a calculated position which takes off much of the error of this measure .
In a conversation with my highly esteemed friend the Astronomer Royal , he happened some time ago accidentally to mention , that Dr. BRADLEY had formerly observed the two stars of s Geminorum to stand in the same direction with Castor and Pollux .
It occurred to me immediately , that if the time of this observation could be nearly ascertained , it would be of the greatest importance to the subject at present under consideration .
For , should Dr. BRADLEY'S position be very different from a calculated one , it would induce us at once to give up the idea of a revolving star .
The observation was made by Dr. BRADLEY with a view to see whether any change could be perceived in the course of the year , by which the annual parallax of the stars might be discovered .
Dr. MASKELYNE , who had this information from Dr. BRADLEY in conversation , had made a memorandum of it in his papers .
He has been so kind as to look for it ; and , as soon as he found the note , he sent me the following copy , which I have his permission to transcribe .
c " Double star Castor .
No cht ge of position zn the two SStars .
' the line joining t1em , at all ties the yar , paralel to the li S63 " joining Castor and Pollux in the heavens , seen by the naked " eye .
" Dr. MASKELYNE informs me , that the observation must have been made about the year 1759 ; and also mentions , that he himself verified the fact , as to the line joining the two stars appearing through the telescope parallel to the line joining Castor and Pollux , in 176o or 1761 ; but that he did not examine it at Various times of the year .
The advantage of having an angle of position observed in 1759 by Dr. BRADLEY , and so soon after verified by Dr. MASKELYNE , will give us an addition of o2 years to our period .
On calculating the right ascension and polar distance of Castor and Pollux for November 5 , 1759 , it appears , that a line drawn from Pollux through Castor , must have made an angle of 56o 3$ ' north preceding with the parallel of that star ; and , this being also the position of our double star , we have an interval of 43 years and 342 days , for a change of 450 39 ' , from the time of Dr. BRADLEY'S observation to that of my last measure of the angl .
By this we are now enabled to correct our former calcultion , which was founded upon a supposition that the first angle of position I had taken was perfect ; but this could hardly be expected , and on examination it appears that the measure was 20 40 ' too little .
The annual motion , by our increased period , is ? ?
3',1 ; and the computation of the angles of position in the 3d column of the following Table , as well as the differences contained in the 4th , are made according to this motion .
Observed Calculated , Times of the observations .
angles .
angles .
Differences .
Nov. 5 , 1759 j 5S6.6 o ' !
Nov. 5 , 1779 3 47 .
35 2 9 , 42 ... TFIXb .
23 , I r1791 * -1 '22 57 2 69 ' j 9 , L Feb. 26 , 1792 2 127 12 ' 3i1 4 44 Dec. 15 , 1795 313 ... .
8 -4 40 : March 26,80 ' " 1 84i 1+4 5 April 23 , i800 '1030 1 '58 83 j 28 Dec. 31 , 180 j7 58 12 12 4 " DJan .
10 , 1802 10,5 11o -1 17 ; Jan. 03 , _1802 10 28 12 71 39 Feb. 28 , 1802 -13 12 I 059 'Feb.'11 , i8o3 -7 53 11 1 -3 8 March 2i , I803 I 13 2 , 10 442_29i March 27 , 1803 io 53 I0 5 ; 3 I0 ' When the result of this Table is compared with that of the former , it will be seen that my observations agree not only very well with Dr. BRADLEY'S position , but even give more equally divided differences than before , so that the excess and dilffrences counteract each other better than in the first Table .
The time of a periodical revolution may now be calculated from the arch of 45 ? ?
39 ' , which has been described in 43 years and 142 days .
The regularity of the motion gives us great reason to conclude , that the orbit in which the small star moves about Castor , or rather , the orbits in which they both move round their common centre of gravity , are nearly circular , and at right angles to the line in which we see them .
If this should be nearly true , it follows , that the time of a whole apparent MDcccCIII .
3B revolution of the small star round Castor , will be about 342 years and two months .
y Leonis .
Our foregoing discussions will greatly abridge the arguments which may be used , to show that this star and its small companion are also probably united in forming a binary system .
But , in order to give more clearness to our disquisition , we shall follow the arrangement which has been used with a ; Geminorum , and prefix the same letters to our paragraphs .
Then , if any one article should appear to be not sufficiently explained , we need but turn back to our first double star , where the same letter will point out what has already been said more at large on the subject ; and an application of it may easily be made .
The distance of the stars ?
and x , as I shall again call the small one , has undergone a visible alteration in the last 21 years .
The result of a great number of observations on the vacancy between the two stars , made with the magnifying powers of 278 , 460 , 657 , 840 , 932 , 1504 , 2010 , 2589 , 3168 , 4294 , 5489 , and 6652 , is , that with the standard power and aperture of the 7-feet telescope , the interval in 1782 was A of a diameter of the small star , and is now ? .
With the same telescope , and a power of 2010 , it was formerly Xof a diameter of the small star , and is now full i diameter .
In the years 1795 , 1796 , and 1798 , the interval was found to have gradually increased ; and all observations conspire to prove , that the stars are now a diameter of the small one farther asunder than they were formerly .
The proportion of the diameter of y to that of x , I have , by many observations , estimated as 5 to 4 .
The first measured angle in 1782 , is 7 ? ?
37 ' north following ; * In my second Catalogue of double Stars , ( Phil. Trans. for 1785 , page 48 , ) the and the last , which has been lately taken , is 6 ?
.e ' south folb lowing .
The sum of these angles gives 130 58 , for the change that has taken place in li years and 38 days .
To account for this , we are to have recourse , as before , to the various motions of the three bodies .
Single Motions .
( a ) The motion of x alone cannot be admitted , since it is known that y Leonis is not at rest .
The annual proper motion of this star , according to M. DE LA LAND , is + o",38 in right ascension , and 0",04 in declination towards the south .
( b ) y cannot be the only moving body ; because its motion in right ascension only , which , in 21,1 years , at the parallel of y , amounts to 7",49 , would have long ago taken it away from the small star .
( c , d , e , ) The sun dannot be the only moving body ; because its motion in right ascension will not account for that of y Leonis , which star therefore cannot be at rest .
And , if we were willing to give up the former assumed solar motion , in order to fix upon such a one as would explain the motion of y , we should be under a necessity to contradict the united evidence of the proper motions of many principal stars which are in opposition to it .
Double Motions .
( J ) When two motions are proposed , we cannot fix upon y and x for the moving bodies , unless we should set aside the solar motion , and this , we know , cannot properly admit of a doubt .
angle of position is 5 ? ?
2 ' .
This was taken April 8 , 1783 ; and , not being acquainted with the motion of the small star , I supposed it to be more accurate than the former measure , 367 ( g ) That we cannot allow O and x to be the two bodies in motion , follows from the insufficiency of the solar motion to account for that of y , which must be real , or at least partly so , ( h ) If 0 and y are the moving bodies , the given situations of x , in the years 1782 and 1783 , point out an apparent motion of x , which must be entirely owing to the solar parallax ; and , therefore , those who will admit this hypothesis , must grant the discovery of the motion of the solar system , and of the proportional parallax of the two stars y and x. Let us however examine whether any motion of the sun , such as we can admit , will account for the change of position and distance pointed out by my observations of the small star near y Leonis .
The joint effect of proper motion and parallax , has carried y from its situation in 1782 to that where we now find it .
The small star , having all this time , in appearance , accompanied y , must have gone through a space of 7",98 , in a direction which makes an angle of 8 ? ?
30 ' south following with the parallel of y , in order to be at its present distance from it , and at the same time to have undergone the required change of its angle of position .
Now , as the supposition we are examining requires this small star to be actually at rest , it will be necessary to assign to the sun an opposite motion of the same velocity , in order to make that of x only an apparent one .
The consequence of this will be a retrograde motion of the sun , which it is well known cannot be admitted .
Motion of the three Bodies .
( i ) A motion of all the three bodies , is the only way left to explain the phenomena of our double star ; and I shall now again point out the very particular circumstances which it is requisite should all happen together , to produce the intended effect .
Let the motion of the sun , with the same annual velocity i , as in the case of a Geminorum , be directed towards x Herculis .
Then the effect of this motion will show itself at the place of ?
Leonis , in the annual velocity of , $3314 , and in a direction which makes an angle of 31 ? ?
1l south preceding with the parallel of that star .
In this calculation , I have admitted the distance of the largest of the two stars of y from the sun to be 3 , that of Geminorum being 2 .
But , if any other distance should hereafter be considered as more probable , the calculation may be easily adapted to it .
The consequence of the parallax thus produced on y Leonis in 21,1 years , will be an apparent motion of 2 " ; 788 south preceding , in the abovementioned direction ; and , on x , it will be in the same time , and in the same direction , 1",091 .
As the small star must not be too near y , we have,.in the calculation , supposed it to be at the distance of 4 from 0 .
The real annual proper motion of y is required to be 3,52o 2 ; and its direction must make an angle of 3 ? ?
40 ' north following with the parallel .
By this motion alone , y would have passed over a space of 9"87 in 21,1 years ; but , when it is combined with the apparent motion arising from parallax , the star will come into its present situation .
The real annual motion of x must be 4,6294 , in a direction o 2o ' south following .
This will carry it over 9",74 , in 21,1 years ; and , when combined with the apparent motion which the solar parallax will occasion , both together will bring it to its proper distance from y Leonis , and to a situation which will agree with the last observed angle of position .
From what has been said , it is again evident , that not only as 369 many particular circumstances must concur in explaining the phenomena of y Leonis as we have pointed out with s Geminorum , but that a very marked condition is added in our second double star , which requires an adjustment of velocities in y and x , which shall also fit the same solar motion that was used in a Geminorum .
And this proves , that every additional double star which requires the same condition in order to have its appearances explained , will enforce the arguments which have been used , in a compound ratio .
If , on the other hand , we have recourse to the simplicity of the known effects of attraction , and admit the two stars of our present double star to be united in one system , all the foregoing difficulties of accounting for the observed phenomena will vanish .
Whatever may be the proper motion of the sun , the parallax arising from that cause will affect both stars equally , on account of their equal distance from the sun .
The proper motion of y Leonis also may be in any direction , and of any given velocity , such as will agree best with astronomical observations ; since the motion of a system of bodies will not interfere with the particular motion of the bodies that belong to it , so that our secondary star will continue its revolution round the primary one without disturbance .
It will now be necessary to examine the observed angles of position , and to compare them with calculated ones ; but , as there has been a change in the distance of the two stars , it is evident that , if they revolve in circular orbits , the situation of the plane of their revolution must be considerably inclined to the line in which we see the principal star .
Let NFS P , Fig. 2 , be the orbit in which x revolves about y placed in the centre .
Suppose a perpendicular to be erected at y leading to 0 , not expressed in the figure .
By .
an observation of Feb. 16 , 1782 , we have the angle Fyx 7 ? ?
37 ' north following ; and the proportion of the apparent diameter of y to that of x has been given as 5 to 4 .
It has also been ascertained , that the vacancy between the apparent diameters , when the first angle of position was taken , was 4 diameter of the small star ; and the last angle of position being 6 ? ?
2,1 ' south following , with a distance between the stars of A diameter of the small star , we obtain the two points or centres of the small stars xx ' , through which an ellipsis ab xxcd may be drawn about y. This will be the apparent orfit in which the small star will be seen to move about y , by an eye placed at 0 .
And the inclination of the orbit to the line in which we see the double star , will be had sufficiently accurate to enable us to give a calculation of the several angles of position that have been taken- .
The ellipsis we have delineated shows that the small star , in its first situation x , could not be much past its conjunction at b , and that , consequently , in passing from x to x ' , the parts of the apparent elliptical arch , which are projections of the real circular arch hh ' , would be described in times nearly proportional to the time in which the whole arch has been described .
Upon these principles , the 3d column of the following Table has been calculated .
37x The difference between the calculated and observed angles , contained in the 4th column of the preceding Table , is so little , that we may look upon the gradual change of these angles as established by observation ; and we may form a calculated estimate of the time which will be taken up by the mutual revolution of the two stars .
The apparent places x x ' , being referred to their real ones , give the arch ihh ' , which has been described in s1 years and 38 days ; and this arch , seen from the centre 2 , is about 6 2o ' : it follows , that .
the length of a whole revolution of our small star round y Leonis , will be about 1200 years .
s Bootis .
This beautiful double star , on account of the different colours of the stars of which it is composed , has much the appearance of a planet and its satellite , both shining with innate but differently coloured light .
There has been a very gradual change in the distance of the two stars ; and the result of more than 120 observations , with different powers , is , that with the standard magnifier , 460 , and the aperture of 6,3 inches , the vacancy between the two stars , in the year 1781 , was 1diafneter of the large star , and that it now is i1 .
By some earlier observations , the vacancy was found to be considerably less in 1779 and 1780 ; but the 7-feet mirror then in use'was not so perfect as it should have been , for the purpose of such delicate observations .
By many estimations of the apparent size of the stars , I have fixed the proportion of the diameter of E to that of x , as 3 to 2 .
August 31 , 1780 , the first angle of position measured 32 ? ?
19 ' north preceding ; * and , March 16 , 1803 , I found it 44 ? ?
51 ' , also north preceding : the motion , therefore , in 22 years and 2o7 days , is 12 ? ?
33 .
It should also be noticed , that while the apparent motion of a Geminorum , and of y Leonis , is retrograde , that of E Bootis is direct .
A proper motion in this star , if it has any , is still unknown ; our former arguments , therefore , cannot be applied to it , without some additional considerations ; and , as many others of my double stars will stand in the same predicament , I shall give an outline of what may be said , to show that this , and probably many of the rest , are also binary systems .
Single Motions .
( a-e ) If E Bootis is a star in which no proper motion can be perceived , we may infer , from the highly probable motion of the solar system , that this star , which is of the 3d magnitude , and on that account within the reach of parallax , must have a real motion , to keep up with the sun , in order to prevent an apparent change of place , which must otherwise have happened .
In this case , no single motion can be admitted to explain the phenomena of our double star .
But , if a real proper motion of E Bootis should hereafter be ascertained , the arguments we have used in the case of y Leonis , will lead to the same conclusion .
Double Motions .
( f ) 6 and x cannot be the moving bodies ; and our former argument ( f ) will apply to every double star whatsoever .
( g ) 0 and x cannot be alone in motion ; for , if no motion in can be perceived , it must move in a similar manner with the sun , and none of the three bodies will be at rest .
But , if its proper motion shall hereafter be found out , it must either be exactly the reverse of the solar motion , and therefore only an apparent one , or it will be more or less different .
In the latter case , all the three bodies must be in motion ; in the former , the exact quantity of the solar motion will be discovered , and the relative parallax of many stars may be had by observation .
( h ) If 0 and E are the two bodies in motion , and if at the same time no motion in ?
can be perceived , then the apparent motion of x must be entirely owing to the different effect of the solar parallax on g and x ; but the effect of the solar parallax on x , can only be in a direction contrary to the motion of the sun , which , being north following the small star , whether it be nearer or farther from us than s , must have an apparent motion towards the south preceding part of the heavens .
But this is directly in opposition to my observation of the motion of the small star , which , these last 23 years , has been directed towards the north following , Motion of the three Bodies .
( i ) Let the motion of the sun be again towards x Herculis ; then , if no motion in n Bootis be perceivable , it must move exactly like 0 .
Highly improbable as it is , let it be admitted .
Then , in addition to this extraordinary supposition , a third motion is also required for x , which , aided by the solar parallax , is to carry it likewise within a quarter of a diameter of c , into the same place where , though unperceived , the large star has been carried by its own motion ; that is , in order to be apparently at rest , the sun , E Bootis , and its small companion , must all , move exactly alike , setting aside the very little difference in the position and distance of the small star , which , in the whole , amounts to little more than 6-tenths of a second ; than which , certainly nothing can be more improbable .
But , if E shall hereafter be found not to have been at rest during the time of my observations upon it , then its place will be given ; and , since also the situation of x , with respect to e , is to be had from my angles of position and distances of the two stars , the case will be similar to that which has already been considered , in the paragraph ( ) , under the head of y Leonis .
I may here add a remark with regard to e Bootis , which will be applicable to several more of my double stars .
In the milyway , a multitude of small stars are profusely scattered , and their arrangement is very different from what we perceive in those parts of the heavens which are at a considerable distance from it .
About E Bootis , which is situated in what I have formerly called figuratively a nebulous part of the heavens , * there are .
comparatively speaking , hardly any stars ; and , that so See Phil. Trans for 1784 , page 449 .
3C 2 .
375 remarkable a star as e should have a companion , seems almost to amount to a proof that this very companion is , as it appears to be , a connected star .
The onus probandi , tterefore , ought in justice to fall to the share of those who would deny the truth of what we may call a fact ; and I believe the utmost they could do , would be to prove that we may be deceived ; but they cannot show that this star has no connection with e Bootis .
This argument will be much supported , when we consider that many of the double stars in the milky-way are probably such as have one of the scattered stars , nearly in the same line , at a great distance behind them .
In this case , the two stars of the double star have no connection with each other ; and the great number of them in the milky-way , is itself an indication of this effect of the scattered multitude of ' small stars .
In the single constellation of Orion , for instance , we have no less than 43 , pointed out by my catalogues ; ten of which are of the first class , and yet have undergone no change of distance or position since I first perceived them .
But , with apparently insulated stars , such as e Bootis , the case is just the reverse .
If , in consequence of our former arguments , and the present remarks , we place E Bootis among the stars which hold a smaller one in combination , we may delineate its orbit as in Plate VIII .
Fig.,3 Let PNFS represent a circle , projected into the elliptical orbit axxt'bcd .
E is the large star ; and xx ' are the first and last measured north preceding situations of the small one , as given in the following Table , Observed Calculated Times of the observations .
angles .
angles .
Differences .
3 ' s~ 19 ' !
3 ?
s8 ' -~ 39 ' ^August 31^ 1780 , '-____ r ' 3 9 ... . ?
' Marchi 13 , 1781 4 Maygut10 .
, 1781 ... ... .{ ... .
- ' , 'i , ... .
MNay io , 1c-i i -.eb .
17 , 18 ... '4 40I | -46i August 18 , 1796 5 3 ; L. 441 : 40 +.Li 45 9041 4 4 , +..'4o"t ... . .
; i.3 .
' ' jJan , .
2"8o - , __ 49 18.441.9 I +4 559 August 31 , i8o 46 47 4 44 36 ' +2 11 March a3 , 1803 _4 3-3 4 .
4 52 , 19 March 26 , 18o3 44 52 44 52 01 44 52 !
44 , 52 3 The real motion from h to h ' is projected into that from x to X ' ; and , while the elliptical arch subtends an angle of 2 ?
'33 ' , the circular one will be about 4 ? ?
50 ' .
From the figure of the orbit , we may conclude that the small star , in its first position , at x. or h , was not more than between 30 and 40 years past its conjunction ; and that , consequently , the parts of the arch xx : ' , were nearly proportional to the times of their being described .
The positions have been calculated upon this principle ; but with some allowance for the first observed angle , which I suppose to have been a little too small ; and , though the differences of the observed and calculated angles are pretty considerable , the observations are still sufficiently consistent to prove the gradual change of the situation of the small star .
The quantity of the change in 22 years and 20o7 days , will show that a periodical revolution cannot take up less than 168i years .
The real figure and situation of the orbit , with many other particulars , are still unknown ; it is , there%ore , unn ?
ccessa &amp; to point out the uncertainties in which the investigation of the periodical time of the small star about a Bootis must long remain involved .
C He1rculis .
My observations of this star furnish us with a phenomenon which is new in astronomy ; it is , the occultation of one star by another .
This epoch , whatever be the cause of it , will be equally remarkable , whether owing to solar parallax , proper motion , or motion in an orbit whose plane is nearly coincident with the visual ray .
My first view of this star , as being double , was July 18 , 1782 .
With 460 , the stars were then diatneter of the small star asunder .
The large star is of a beautiful bluish white ; and the small one ash-coloured .
July 21 , of the same year , I measured the angle of position,.o0 42 ' north following .
With the standard power , the distance of the stars remained as before .
With 987 , they wee one full diameter of the small one asunder .
In the year 1795 , I found it difficult to perceive the small star ; however , in October of the same year , I saw it plainly double , with 460 ; and its position was north following .
Other business prevented my attending to this star till the year i802 , when I could no longer perceive the small star .
Sometimes , however , I suspected it to be still partly visible ; and , in September of the same year , with 460 , the night being very clear , the apparent disk of ( Herculis seemed to be a little lengthened one way .
With the lo-feet telescope , and a power of 60oo , I saw the two stars of n Coronae very distinctly ; and , having in this manner proved the instrument to act well , I directed it to H Lerculis , and found it to have the appearance of a lengthened , or rather wedge-formed star ; after which , I took a measure of the position of the wedge .
Our temperature is seldom uniform enough to permit the use of very high powers ; however , on the iith of April , 1803 , I examined the apparent disk , with a magnifier of 2140 , and found it , as before , a little distorted ; but there could not be more than about -8 of the apparent diameter of the small star wanting to a complete occultation .
Most probably , the path of the motion is not quite central ; if so , the disk will remain a little distorted , during the whole time of the conjunction .
Our present observations cannot determine which of the stars is at the greatest distance ; but this will occasion no difference in the appearance ; for , if the small star should be the nearest , its light will be equally lost in the brightness of the large one .
The observations I have made on this star , are not sufficient to direct us in the investigation of the nature of the motion by which this change is occasioned .
We may however be certain , that with regard to Single Motions , ( a , b ) Neither x nor ( can be supposed to be the only moving bodies , without contradicting the highly probable arguments for the sun 's motion .
( c , d ) If we admit the sun to be the moving body , the stars ( and x being at rest , we may calculate the effect of the solar parallax upon them , as follows .
Let O move towards x Herculis , with the annual velocity i , as in the case of oc Geminorum ; then , from the situation and magnitude of the large star of C IHerculis , which we will suppose 4m , the effect of the solar motion at C will be only , o522 ; and , at x , supposed to be at the distance 5m , it will be,0418 .
This will show itself at the parallel of C in a direction of 25 ? ?
5 ' north preceding , the solar motion being in the opposite direction south following .
But this parallax will only produce , in 20 years and lo months , an apparent change of o",444 in ^ , and of o",355 in x ; and will separate the stars , instead of bringing them to a conjunction .
( e ) A considerable advantage may be gained , by placing x at a little more than I the distance of C from 0 .
For as , in the abovementioned time , this would make the effect of parallax upon it 1",18 , a conjunction should now take place .
But then the stars , though very near each other , would not be quite in contact ; much less could one of them occasion an occultation of the other .
The supposition also , that the small star should be only j of the distance of the large one from us , is not very favourable to the hypothesis . ?
Serpentis .
This double star has undergone a very considerable change in the angle of position , but none in the distance of the two stars .
The 5th of September , 1782 , an accurate measure of the position was 42 ? ?
48 ' south preceding ; and February 7 , 18o0 , it measured 61 ? ?
27 ' south preceding .
In 19 years and 155 days , therefore , the small star has moved , in a retrograde order , over an arch of 18 ? ?
39 ' .
Every argument , to examine the cause of this motion , which has been used with e Bootis , in the paragraphs from ( a ) to ( i ) , will completely apply to this star ; from this we may conclude , that the most natural way of accounting for the observed changes , is to admit the two stars to form a binary system .
In this case we calculate , with -considerable probability , that the periodical time of a revolution of the small star round &amp; Serpentis , must be about 375 years .
y Virginis .
This double star , which has long been known to astronomers , * has undergone a visible change since the year 1780 , when I first began my observations of it .
The 2ist of November , 1781 , I measured the position of the two stars , which was 40 ? ?
44 ' south following .
The stars are so nearly equal , that I have but lately ascertained the following one to be rather larger than its companion ; the position , therefore , ought now to be called north preceding .
By a mean of three measures , that were taken on the i , th of April , 1803 , the angle was 30 ? ?
20 ' np .
The distance , as far as estimations by the diameter can determine , when the stars are so far asunder as these are , remains without alteration .
May 21 , 1781 , they were 29 diameters asunder ; and , by estimations lately made , with the same instrument and power as were used 21 years ago , the stars are still at the same distance of 2diameters .
A very small proper motion in declination , of o",02 towards the south , has been assigned to this double star ; but the quantity is hardly sufficient for us to rely much upon the accuracy of the determination .
I shall therefore rather consider y Virginis as one of the stars of which we have no proper motion ascertained ; and the arguments to which I shall refer , will consequently be those which have been given with E Bootis .
The change of the angle of position , in the time of 21 years and 145 days , amounts to o10 24 ' ; from which we obtain the annual motion of 29',16 .
The observed and calculated angles , with their differences , on which it will not be necessary to make any remarks , are in the following Table .
Observed Calculated Times of the observations .
angles .
angles .
Differences .
zf ... ... . .
~'4oo !
ail. .
an le. .
'ov .
2 , 1781 4Q0 4',4.0 44 ' o0 ^JaT .
29 , 1802o 22 / 30 51 f 29 Apri 15 , 180 1 30 20 o 30 20 0o C May 28 , 1803 _ 32 30 17 | +1 2j45 -K~~ -..1 C &gt; _t.**S[KJi~XPt-s%t:*I : 8 , As a confirmation of the accuracy of these observations , we may have recourse to a position of the same stars , deduced from the places of them , as they are given in MAYER'S Zodiacal Catalogue .
By two observations , reduced to the beginning of the year 1756 , the preceding one was 3",8 before the other in right ascension , and 5",3 more north than that star .
From this we calculate the position , which was 54 ? ?
21 ' 37 " ' north preceding .
The interval from the ist of January , 1756 , to the 21st of November , 1781 , is 25 years and 325 days .
When this is added to the period I have given , we have 47 years and 105 days , for a motion of 24 ?
, ' .
The annual motion , deduced from this lengthened period , which is 30'5 , differs less than minute from that which has been calculated from my observations .
With the assistance , therefore , of MAYER'S observation , which greatly supports our calculation , we may conclude , that the two stars of y Virginis revolve round each other in about 708 years , / // , / ,..7 ; , / w , ; M ) ( ' ( C 1./ Y/ .
1. .
a. _ .
, , _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1/ / /.J / . ?
y'/ -( p Iu , I , -N I1 isI Fi r - .
u~- , I/ I I.i 'i Ii1 i ; i I ; iIiiii i

