[ 2(9 ] XI .
A llathematical Theory of Magnetism.-Continuation of Part I. By WILLIAM THOMSON , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S.E. , Fellow of St. Peter 's College , Cambridge , and Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Lieut.-Colonel SABINE , For .
Sec. R.S. Received June 20 , -Read June 20 , 1850 .
CHAPTER V. On Solenoidal and Lamellar Distributions of Magnetism .
65 .
IN the course of some researches upon inverse problems regarding distributions of magnetism , and upon the comparison of electro-magnets and common magnets , I have found it extremely convenient to make use of definite terms to express certain distributions of magnetism and forms of magnetized matter possessing remarkable properties .
The use of such terms will be of still greater consequence in describing the results of these researches , and therefore , before proceeding to do so , I shall give definitions of the terms which I have adopted , and explain briefly the principal properties of the magnetic distributions to which they are applied .
The remainder of this chapter will be devoted to three new methods of analysing the expressions for the resultailt force of a magnet at any point , suggested by the consideration of these special forms of magnetic distribution .
A Mathematical Theory of Electro-Magnets , and Inverse Problems regarding magnetic distributions , are the subjects of papers which I hope to be able to lay before the Royal Society on a subsequent occasion .
66 .
Definitions and explanations regarding Magnetic Solenoids .
( 1 .
) A magnetic solenoid* is an infinitely thin bar of any form , longitudinally magnetized with an intensity varying inversely as the area of the normal section in different parts .
The constant product of the intensity of magnetization into the area of the normal section , is called the magnetic strength , or sometimes simply the strength of the solenoid .
Hence the magnetic moment of any straight portion , or of an infinitely small portion of a curved solenoid , is equal to the product of the magnetic strength into the length of the portion .
( 2 .
) A number of magnetic solenoids of different lengths may be put together so as to constitute what is , as far as regards magnetic action , equivalent to a single infinitely thin bar of any form , longitudinally magnetized with an intensity varying arbitrarily from one end of the bar to the other .
Hence such a magnet may be called a complex magnetic solenoid .
The magnetic strength of a complex solenoid is not uniform , but varies from one part to another .
( 3 .
) An infinitely thin closed ring , magnetized in the manner described in ( 1 .
) , is called a closed magnetic solenoid .
67 .
Definitions and explanations regarding Magnetic Shells .
( 1 .
) A magnetic shell is an infinitely thin sheet of any form , normally magnetized with an intensity varying inversely as the thickness in different parts .
The constant product of the intensity of magnetization into the thickness is called the magnetic strength , or sometimes simply the strength of the shell .
Hence the magnetic moment of any plane portion , or of an infinitely small portion of a curved magnetic shell , is equal to the product of the magnetic strength , into the area of the portion .
( 2 .
) A number of magnetic shells of different areas may be put together so as to constitute what is , as far as regards magnetic action , equivalent to a single infinitely thin sheet of any form , normally magnetized with an intensity varying arbitrarily over the whole sheet .
Hence such a magnet may be called a complex magnetic shell .
The magnetic strength of a complex shell is not uniform , but varies firoin one part to another .
( 3 .
) An infinitely thin sheet , of which the two sides are closed surfaces , is called a closed magnetic shell .
68 .
Solenoidal and Lamellar Distributions of Magnetism.-If a finite magnet of any form be capable of division into an infinite number of solenoids which are either closed or have their ends in the bounding surface , the distribution of magnetism in it is said to be solenoidal , and the substance is said to be solenoidally magnetized .
If a finite magnet of any form be capable of division into an infinite number of magnetic shells which are either closed or have their edges in the bounding surface , the distribution of magnetism in it is said to be lamellar* , and the substance is said to be lamellarly magnetized .
69 .
Complex Lamellar Distributions of Magnetism.-If a finite magnet of any form be capable of division into an infinite number of complex magnetic shells , it is said to possess a complex lamellar distribution of magnetism .
70 .
Complex Solenoidal Distributions of Magnetism.-Since , by cutting it along ' The term lamellar , adopted for want of a better , is preferred to " laminated " ; since this might be objected to as rather meaning " composed of plates , " than composed of shells , whether plane or curved , and is besides too much associated with a mechanical structure such as that of slate or mica , to be a convenient term for the magnetic distributions defined in the text .
lines of magnetization , every magnet of finite dimensions may be divided into an infinite number of longitudinally magnetized infinitely thin bars or rings , any distribution of magnetism which is not solenoidal might be called a complex solenoidal distribution ; but no advantage is obtained by the use of this expression , which is only alluded to here , on account of the analogy with the subject of the preceding definition .
71 .
PROP.-'The action of a magnetic solenoid is the same as if a quantity of positive or northern imaginary magnetic matter numerically equal to its magnetic strength , were placed at one end , and an equal absolute quantity of negative or southern matter at the other end .
The truth of this proposition follows at once from the investigation of Chap. III . ?
' 36 , 37 , 38 .
Cor. 1.--The action of a magnetic solenoid is independent of its form , and depends solely on its strength and the positions of its extremities .
Cor. 2.-A closed solenoid exerts no action on any other magnet .
Cor. 3.-The " resultant force " ( defined in Chap. IV . ? ?
49 ) at any point in the substance of a closed magnetic solenoid vanishes .
72 .
PROP.-If i be the intensity of magnetization , and w the area of the normal section at any point P , at a distance s from one extremity of a complex solenoid , and if [ iw ] and { iw } denote the values of the product of these quantities at the extremity from which s is measured , and at the other extremity respectively ; the magnetic action will be the same as if there were a distribution of imaginary magnetic matter , through the length of the bar of which the quantity in an ininitely small portion ds , of the length at the point P , would be ds , and accumulations of quantities equal to -[ix ] and { i } respectively at the two extremities .
The truth of this proposition follows immediately from the conclusions of Chap. III . ?
38 .
73 .
PROP.-The potential of a magnetic shell at any point is equal to the solid angle which it subtends at that point multiplied by its magnetic strength .
Let dS denote the area of an infinitely small element of the shell , A the distance of this element from the point P , at which the potential is considered , and 0 the angle between this line , and a normal to the shell drawn through the north polar 'de of dS .
Then if X denote the magnetic strength of the shell , the magnetic moment of the element dS will be X dS , and ( ? ?
54 .
) the potential due to it at P will be 'dS .
cos 0 A2 * This theorem is due to GAUSS ( see his paper " On the General Theory of Terrestrial Magnetism , " ? ?
38 ; of which a translation is published in TAYLOR 's Scientific Memoirs , vol. ii .
) .
AMrPERE 's well-known theorem , referred to by GAUss , that a closed galvanic circuit produces the same magnetic effect at a magnetic shell of any form having the circuit for its edge , implies obviously the truth of the first part of Cor. 2 below .
dS.cosO Now dS is the solid angle subtended at P by the element dS , and therefore the potential due to any infinitely small element is equal to the product of its magnetic strength , into the solid angle which its area subtends at P. But the potential due to the whole is equal to the sum of the potentials due to the parts , and the strength is the same for all the parts .
Hence the potential due to the whole shell is equal to the product of its strength into the sum of the solid angles which all its parts , or the solid angle which the whole , subtends at P. d. dS.os Cor. 1.-The expression A , which occurred in the preceding demonstration , being positive or negative according as 0 is acute or obtuse , it appears that the solid angles subtended by different parts of the shell at P must be considered as positive or negative according as their north polar or their south polar sides are towards this point .
Cor. 2.--The potential at any point due to a magnetic shell is independent of the form of the shell itself , and depends solely on its bounding line or edge , subject to an ambiguity , the nature of which is made clear by the following statemrent : If two shells of equal magnetic strength , x , have a common boundary , and if the north polar side of one , and the south polar side of the other be towards the enclosed space , the potentials due to them at any external point will be equal ; and the potential at any point in the enclosed space , due to that one of which the northern polarity is on the inside , will exceed the potential due to the other by the constant 4i .
Cor. 3.-Of two points infinitely near one another on the two sides of a magnetic shell , but not infinitely near its edge , the potential at that one which is on the north polar side exceeds the potential at the other by the constant 4.x : Cor. 4.-The potential of a closed magnetic shell of strength x , with its northern polarity on the inside , is 4Xx , for all points in the enclosed space , and 0 for all external points ; and for points in the magnetized substance it varies continuously from the inside , where it is 4%rX to the outside , where it is 0 .
Cor. 5.-A closed magnetic shell exerts no force on any other magnet .
Cor. 6.-The " resultant force " ( ? ?
49 .
) at any point in the substance of a closed magnetic shell is equal to - , if T be the thickness , or to 4ri , if i be the intensity of magnetization of the shell in the neighbourhood of the point , and is in the direction of a normal drawn from the point through the south polar side of the shell .
Cor. 7.-If the intensity of magnetization of an open shell be finite , the resultant force at any external point not infinitely near the edge is infinitely small ; but the force at any point in the substance not infinitely near the edge is finite , and is equal to 4ri , if i be the intensity of the magnetization in the neighbourhood of the point , and is in the direction of a normal through the south polar side .
distribution of magnetism expressed by { ( ac , 3 , y ) at ( x , y , z)}* is solenoidal if , and is not solenoidal unless d+ + -+ =0zThe condition that a given distribution of magnetism , in a substance of finite dimensions , may be solenoidal , is readily deduced from the investigations of ? ?
42 , by means of the propositions of ? ? ? ?
71 and 72 .
For , if the distribution of magnetism be solenoidal , the imaginary magnetic matter by which the polarity of the whole magnet may be represented will be situated at the ends of the solenoids , according to ? ?
71 , and therefore ( ? ?
68 .
) will be spread over the bounding surface .
On the other hand , if the distribution be not solenoidal , that is , if the magnet be divisible into solenoids , of which some , if not all , are complex ; there will , according to ? ?
72 , be an internal distribution of imaginary magnetic matter in the representation of the polarity of the whole magnet .
Hence it follows from ? ?
42 , that if a , 3 , y denote the components of the intensity of magnetization at any internal point ( x , y , z ) , the equation ix+d+d ... ... ... . .
( I. ) expresses that the distribution of magnetism is solenoidal+ .
75 .
PROP.-A distribution of magnetism { ( ( a , P , y ) at ( x , y , z ) } is lamellar if , and is not lamellar unless zdx+3dy+ydz is the differential of a function of three independent variables .
Let -4 be a variable which has a certain value for each of the series of surfaces by which the magnet may be divided into magnetic shells ; so that , if 4 be considered as a function of x , y , z , any one of these surfaces will be represented by the equation ( x , Y , z)= ... .
( a ) ; and the entire series will be obtained by giving the parameter , I1 , successively a series of values each greater than that which precedes it by an infinitely small amount .
According to the definition of a magnetic shell ( ? ?
67 .
) , the lines of magnetization dx die dz thickness of this shell at any point ( x , g , z ) will be fd+2 d+2 d+2\'\dx2+ die f dZ2J Now the product of the intensity of magnetization , into the thickness of the shell , must be constant for all points of the same shell ; and hence , since w is constant , and at any point , we must have ( a+ a+7 a~--rF( ' ) ... ... ... .
/ d,2 d%P2 ^\i N *d*.* * * obtained in their simplest forms by eliminating the arbitrary function p by differentiation ; and are of course dz die die da d-dz ... .(III .
) dc do C(or.-It follows from the first part of the preceding investigation that equations ( b. ) express that the distribution , if not lamellar , is complex-lamellar .
By elitninating the arbitrary function 4 from those equations , ( which merely express that aodx+pdy+ydz is integrable by a factor , ) we obtain the well-known equation / do die \ , d/ 7y da\ / dot do\ , ( dd ) + p( , -)+ ( o ... . .
( IV .
) , as the simplest expression of the condition that e , 3 , y must satisfy , in order that the distribution which they represent may be complex-lamellar ; and we also conclude that if this equation be satisfied the distribution must be complex-lamellar , unless each term of the first number vanishes by equations ( III .
) being satisfied , in which case the distribution is , as we have seen , lamellar .
76 .
The resultant force at any point external to a lamellarly-magnetized magnet will , according to ? ?
73 ( Cors .
2 and 4 .
) , depend solely upon the edges of the shells into which it may be divided by surfaces perpendicular to the lines of magnetization ( or the bands into which those surfaces cut the bounding surface ) , and not at all on the forms of these shells , within the bounding surface , nor upon any closed shells of which part of the magnet may consist ; and the resultant force at any internal point may ( ? ?
73 .
Cors .
2 , 4 , and 7 , ) be obtained by compounding a force depending solely on those edges , with a force in the direction contrary to that of the magnetization of the substance at the point , and equal to the product of 4r into the intensity of the magnetization .
For either an external or an internal point , the resultant force may be expressed by means of a potential , according to ? ?
49 ; and the value of this potential may be obtained by means of the theorems of ? ?
73 , in the following manner .
Let us suppose all the open shells , that is to say all the shells cut by the bounding surface of the given magnet , to be removed , and an imaginary series of shells having the same edges , and the same magnetic strengths , and coinciding with the bounding surface , substituted for them ; and , for the sake of definiteness , let us suppose each of these shells to have its north polar side outwards , and to occupy a part of the surface for which the value of p is greater than at its edge .
The whole surface will thus be occupied by a series of superimposed magnetic shells , constituting a complex magnetic shell which will produce a potential at any external point the same as that due to the whole of the given magnet ; and it will produce a potential at any internal point , which , together with the potential due to the closed shells which surround it , if there are any , and ( ? ?
73 , Cor. 2 .
) together with the product of 4z into the sum of the strengths of any open shells which have it between them and their superficial substitutes , will be the potential due to the whole of the given magnet at this point .
Now if dp denote the difference between the values of p at two consecutive surfaces of the series , by which we may conceive the whole magnet to be divided into shells , it follows , from the investigation of ? ?
75 , that the magnetic strength of the shell is equal to dp .
Hence , if A denote the least value of p at any part of the bounding surface , and p be supposed to correspond to a point in the surface , the strength of the complex magnetic shell , found by adding the strengths of all the shells of the imaginary series superimposed at this point , will be p-A ; and if P be an internal point , and the value of ~ at it be denoted by ( p ) , the sum of the strengths of all the shells between that which passes through P and that which corresponds to A , will be ( op)A , from which it may be demonstrated * , that , whether ( &lt; p ) be &gt; or -A , and whatever be the nature of the shells , whether all open or some open and some closed , the quantity to be added to the potential due to the imaginary complex shell coinciding with the surface of the magnet to find the actual potential at P , is 4r{( ( )-A } .
Now , from what we have seen above , it follows that the potential at any cosOdS point P , due to an element , dS , of this complex shell is cs O , if denote the angle which an external normal , or a normal through the north polar side of dS , makes with a line drawn from dS to P , and A the length of this line .
Hence the total potential at P , due to the whole complex shell , is equal to / rf{ z+A}cos OdS in which the integration includes the whole bounding surface of the magnet .
Hence , if V denote the potential at P , we have the following expression , according as P is external or internal , V__-f { fA}cosOdS or V=f{-Ai o0dS+4{(p)-A } .
These expressions may be simplified if we remark that , for any external point , rrcos OdS and that , for any internal point , Ifcos dS JJ ~w---4r ( since 3 is the angle between thine in and the external normal t , hrough dS ) .
We thus obtain , for an external point , V ff .
cos OdS and for an internal point , ... .
( V. ) v C/ As COd+4(S ) , I Cor. 1.-The potentials at two points infinitely near one another , even if one be in the magnetized substance and the other be external , differ infinitely little ; for th &amp; value of -rrr .
cos OdS at a point infinitely near the surface and within it , is found by adding 47r(p ) to the value of the same expression at an external point infinitely near the former .
Cor. 2.-If the value of JJp .
cos odS be denoted by -Q for any internal point , x , y , z ; and if ( a ) , ( P ) , ( y ) denote the components of the intensity of magnetization , and X , Y , Z the components of the resultant magnetic force at this point , ( that is , according to the definition in the second footnote on ? ?
48 , the force at a point in an infinitely small crevass tangential to the lines of magnetization at x , y , z ) we have X -dV dQ dv d ( Y ) x-x dV dQ Y -^ f-^ ) ... ... . .
( VI .
) dV dQ = -dz -dz4(y ) The resultant of the partial components , 4z(a ) , -4r( ) , 4r( ) , is a force equal to 4r(i ) acting in a direction contrary to that of magnetization , and this , compounded with the resultant of dQ dQ dQ ~dx din dz ' which depends solely on the edges of the shells , gives the total resultant force at the internal point .
We thus see precisely how the statements made at the commencement of ? ?
76 .
are fulfilled .
Cor. 3 .
It is obvious , by the preceding investigation , that dQ dQ dQ dx ' dy ' dz are the components of the force at a point in an infinitely small crevass perpendicular to the lines of magnetization at x , y , z. 77 .
An analytical demonstration of these expressions may be obtained by a partial integration of the general expression for the potential in the case of a lamellar distribution , in the following manner : In equation ( 5 ) of ? ?
55 , which , as was remarked in the foot-note , expresses the dp dp __ potential for any point , whether internal or external , let d die , and d be substituted in place of il , im , and in respectively ; and , for the sake of brevity , let { ( ~-_)2+ ( -_y)2+ ( -Z)2 } 1 e-x .
ta be denoted by A : then observing that a=-dx , and so for the similar terms ; we have Vjj++ t v})xdydz .
( a ) dx dx +d die dz d Dividing the second member into three terms , integrating the first by parts commencing with the factor dL dx , and so for the other terms ; we obtain fd1 d-l d-fd/ d21 d2 0\ ( d_d _dz d x+ dxd ) V= JJ\xn dz + dx4 .
yz+y ] + ) die + dza ddyd * ( b ) where the brackets which enclose the double integral denote that it has reference to the surface of the body .
Now , for any set of values of x , y , z , for which .
is finite , we have , as is well known , d2 d2i d21 d2 + + die 2-~- ; ... ... . .
( c ) and consequently , if the point n , 3 , 3 is not in the space included by the triple integral in the expression for V , each element of this integral , and therefore also the whole , vanishes .
In the contrary case , the simultaneous values x= , y=r , and z== will be included in the limits of integration , and , as these values make , infinitely great , the equation ( c ) will fail for one element of the integral , although it still holds for all elements corresponding to points at a finite distance from ( , , n , t ) .
Hence , if ( p ) denote the value assumed by the function p at this point , we have / f r\(J d2Jr d+/ 2\ da2 =2 ( +f2 dvd 2 d , where the limits of integration may correspond to any surface whatever which completely surrounds the point ( e , , ) .
Now it is easily proved ( as is well known ) that the value of ( d d\v + Jd21 d2A AA dxdydz is-4r , when ( , , ) is included in the limits of integration ; and therefore the value of the triple integral , in the expression for V , is --4r(p ) .
Hence , according as the point ( i , , 9 ) is external or internal with reference to the magnet , the potential at it is given by the expressions ( VII .
) ( I. ) V= [ fj ( .dydz+ dz d+ dx+ dy ) ] l ... .
( VII .
) dl or ( 2.)*=[ V. dydz +d dx dy r+4r()j These agree with the expressions obtained above in ? ?
76 ; the same double integral with reference to the surface being here expressed symmetrically by means of rectangular coordinates .
78 .
The value of p at any point in the surface of the magnet , which , as appears from the preceding investigations , is all that is necessary for determining the potential due to a lamellar magnet at any point not contained in the magnetized substance , may , according to well-known principles , be determined by integration , if the tangential component of the magnetization at every point of the magnet infinitely near its surface be given .
It appears therefore that , if it be known that a magnet is lamellarly magnetized throughout its interior , it is sufficient to have given the tangential component of its magnetization at every point infinitely near the surface or to have enough of data for determining it , without any further specification regarding the interior , distribution than that it is lamellar , to enable us to determine completely its external magnetic action .
This conclusion is analogous to a conclusion which may be drawn , for the case of a solenoidal distribution , from the expression obtained in ? ?
51 , for the potential of a magnet of any kind .
For , from this expression , we have , according to ? ?
74 , the following in the case of a solenoidal distribution:a.+ ... ... y)dS. .
[ , jf ( lPc+m~+ny)dS ] ] ... ~ ( VIII .
) ; from which we concludte , that without farther data regarding the interior distribltion than that it is solenoidal , it is sufficient to have given the normal component of the magnetization at every point infinitely near the surface to enable us to determine the external magnetic action .
Yet , although analogous conclusions are thus drawn from these two formule , the formulae themselves are not analogous , as the former ( that of ? ?
51 ) is applicable to all distributions , whether solenoidal or not , and shows precisely how the resultant magnetic action will in general depend on the interior distribution besides the normal magnetization near the surface , according to the deviation from being solenoidal which it presents ; while the formulae of ? ?
76 .
merely expresses a fact with reference to lamellar distributions , and being only applicable to lamellar distributions , do not indicate the effect of a deviation from being lamellar , in a distribution of a general form .
Certain considerations regarding the comparison between common magnets and electro-magnets , suggested by AMPERE'S theorem that the magnetic action of a closed galvanic circuit is the same as that of a " magnetic shell " ( as defined in ? ?
67 .
) of any form having its edge coincident with the circuit , led me to a synthetical investigation of a distribution of galvanism through the interior and at the surface of a magnet magnetized in any arbitrary manner , from which I deduced formulae , for the resultant force at any external or internal point , giving the desired indication regarding effect of a deviation from being lamellar , on expressions which , for lamellar distributions , depend solely on the tangential component of magnetization at points infinitely near the surface .
These galvanic elements throughout the body , from the action of which the resultant force at any external point is compounded , produce effects which are not separately expressible by means of a potential , and therefore , although of course when the three components X , Y , Z of the total resultant force at any point ( x , y , z ) have been obtained , they will be found to be such that Xdx+Ydy+Zdz is a complete differential , the separate infinitely small elements of which these forces are compounded by integration with reference to the elements of the magnet , do not separately satisfy such a condition .
Hence the investigation does not lead to an expression for the potential ; but by means of it the following expressions for the three components of the force at any external point , or on a point within any infinitely small crevass perpendicular to the lines of magnetization , have been obtained*:X=f_jf--dxdydz{y(d- ) 3(d }[ Sf { y(m1-n17 )}dS ] Y=fffdx ddzIA ( dm dv ) Y ( dc ( }-3 r{ ( n[f-f(m( ) 1()dS1 ] IX .
fff dxy { 3(d d/ ) ( d3dy)}-[J{ ( -n)(nm)}dS The investigation by which I originally obtained these expressions is , with reference to galvanism , precisely analogous to the investigation in ? ?
42 .
with reference to imnaginary magnetic matter .
It cannot be given without explanations regarding the elements of electro-magnetism which would exceed the limits of the present communication ; but when I had once discovered the formule I had no difficulty in working out the subjoined analytical demonstration of them for the case of an external point , which is precisely analogous to POISSON'S original investigation ( shown in ? ?
56 .
of this paper ) of the formula of ? ?
51 .
79 .
Equations ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) of ? ? ? ?
51 .
and 52 , lead to expressions for the components of the resultant force at any point in the neighbourhood of a magnet .
Taking only one of them , ( since the three expressions are symmetrical ) that for X for instance , we have df dxd -dxaxdydy + d+zJ Now if the factor of dxdydz in the second member of this equation be differentiated -with reference to k , an expression is obtained which does not become infinitely great for any values c : .
x , y , z included within the limits of integration , since the point ( M , v , ) is considered to be external in the present investigation .
Hence the differentiation with reference to e may be performed under the integral sign ; and , since II da da we thus obtain d2 d21 d21 !
X =ffdx dydzi A+ y+ Now , for all points included within the limits of integration , we have , from LAPLACE'S well-known equation , d21 / d21 d dx2\dy2 + dz2/ ,2 and therefore f 2fJd ^ ?
d2 d2 a d21 X xdydz l xy d22 +i* If the point ( Q , V , C ) be either within the magnet , or infinitely near it , the factor of dxdydz in this integral is infinitely great for values of ( x , y , z ) included within the limits of integration ; and it may be demonstrated that the value of a part of the integral corresponding to any infinitely small portion of the magnet infinitely near the point ( ' , , , C ) is in general finite , and that it depends on the form of this portion , on its position with reference to the line of magnetization through ( Q , V , C ) , and on the proportions of the distances of its different parts from this point .
It follows that if the point E , r , t be internal , and if a portion of the magnet round it be omitted from the integral , the value of the integral will be affected by the form of the omitted portion , however small its dimensions may be , and consequently the complete integral has no determinate value if the point ( ' , V , , ) be internal .
Hence , although as we have seen above ( ? ? ? ?
51 , 51 .
) , dS f1 dl 1 d1 has in all cases a determinate value , which , by the definition ( ? ?
48 .
) , is called the component parallel to OX of the resultant force at ( g , V , C ) , the expression df di 1 1d -JCJfdxdydzLa , +y A } die A has no meaning when ( , , C ) is in the substance of the magnet .
Dividing the second member into four terms , and applying an obvious process of integration by parts , we deduce X= [ Ji &gt; -Cdxdz-a d-dxdy+y dydz++ did |r1 1 ?
1 71 dz dddd+Jf dxdydz d7 A adA d7 -A/ J L^^^+ die -dy d+z d~zdx dyd-~ dzModifying the double integral by assuming , in its different terms , dydz=ldS ; dzdx= mdS ; dxdy=ndS , and altering the order of all the terms , we obtain elelA d , de d , }Yy X= ( dz ( de J die ( m AddT I\ ) d(1y -no )JdStThis expression , when the indicated differentiations are actually performed upon- , , becomes identical with the expression for X at the end of ? ?
78 , and the formulae which it was required to prove are therefore established .
80 .
The triple integrals in these expressions vanish in the case of a lamellar distribution , in virtue of the equations ( III .
) of ? ? ? ?
75 ; and we have simply X=l(map)( Iyn ) did ( n-m-ds ] &gt; ** * tions ( XII .
) show that with these data the values of a , , , , r , may be calculated ; and again , equations show conversely that if c , 3 , , y , be given the required data for the problem may be immediately deduced .
We infer that the necessary and sufficient data for determining the resultant force of a lamellar magnet , at any external point , by means of formulae ( X. ) , are equivalent to a specification of the direction and magnitude of the tangential component of the intensity of magnetization at every point infinitely near the surface of the magnet ; and we conclude , as we did in ? ?
78 from a very different process of reasoning , that besides these data , nothing but that it is lamellar throughout need be known of the interior distribution .
81 .
The close analogy which exists between solenoidal and lamellar distributions of magnetism having led me to the new formulae which have just been given , it occurred to me that a formula ( or formulae , if it were necessary here to separate the cases of internal and external points , ) for solenoidal distributions analogous to the formule ( VII .
) of ? ? ? ?
77 for lamellar distributions might be discovered .
Taking an analytical view of the problem ( the synthetical view , although itself much more obvious , not showing any very obvious way of arriving at a formula of the desired kind ) , I observed that the formulaf f2 OdS is deduced from the general expression for the potential , by a partial integration performed upon factors involving a , 3 , y , and depending on the integrability of the function adx3+Pdy+y+dz ensured by the equations z ; o , &amp; z az=0 , =0 ; =o , f+ =o. .
die . .
=O ( a F= , dz die dz die d ' for a lamellar distribution ; and I endeavoured to find a corresponding mode of treatment for solenoidal distributions , to consist of a partial integration , commencing still with factors involving a , X3 , y , but depending now upon the single equation da , dQ die , .
a ) , d + die +- ?
-dzO.**..** ... ( 4 ) , instead of three equations required in the former process .
After some fruitless attempts to connect this equation with the integrability of some function of two independent variables , I fell upon the following investigation , which exactly answered my expectations .
82 .
In virtue of the preceding equation ( a ) , we may assume dH dG dF dH dG dF = die dz P dz-d'-d-fy.* r..(XIV .
) , where F , G , H are three functions to a certain extent arbitrary , which , as I have since found , have for their most general expressions =ffdydz ( d dx )d G=ff - ?
)+ ... .
Gdzd( )+d &gt; ... ... ( XV .
) H=fx dxdy --d)+d d2 o2 where : denotes an absolutely arbitrary function ; and the indicated integrations are indefinite , with the arbitraries which they introduce subject to the equations ( XIV .
) .
The demonstration of these equations follows immediately from the results obtained by differentiating the three equations ( XIV .
) with reference to x , y and z respectively .
The simplest final forms for F , G and H are the following , which are deduced from the preceding by integration : F=Pd3Z-y-dy ) +d G= fydxd--ad)+ ... ... . .
( XVI .
) H=fa-dy+-pdx ) + Making substitutions according to the formulae ( XIV .
) for ao , t , y in the general expression for the potential , we have dx ) +( dx T d ) dd ) d7 rrr^ ^y dz Fd dz dzG ^sA dk dz Dividing the second member into six terms , and integrating each by parts , comdH mencing upon the factors such as --y die , we obtain an expression , with a triple integral involving six terms which destroy one another two and two because of properties such as 11 d-dd Ad dA die dxdx die and besides , a double integral , which may be reduced in the usual manner to a form involving dS , an element of the surface .
We thus obtain , finally , V= [ l l(mH--nG)+ da ( nFIH ) die +(G-mF ) dS(XVII .
) 83 .
The second member of this equation expresses the potential of a certain distribution of magnetism in an infinitely thin sheet coinciding with the surface of the body ; the total magnetic moment of the magnetism in the area dS being { ( mH-^nG)2+ ( nF H)2+ ( IGmF)"2 } dS , and its direction cosines proportional to mH-nG , nF-IH , IG-mF .
Now we have identically , I(mH-nG ) +m(nF-IlH)+nl(G-mF)=O ; and hence the direction of this imaginary magnetization at every point of the surface is perpendicular to the normal .
It follows that we have found a distribution of tangential magnetism in an infinitely thin sheet coinciding with the bounding surface which produces the same potential at any point , internal or external , as the given solenoidal magnet .
84 .
The same general conclusion may be arrived at synthetically in a very obvious manner , by taking into account the property of a solenoid stated in ? ?
71 , according to which it appears that any two solenoids of equal strength , with the same ends , produce the same force at any point whether in the magnetized substance of either , or not .
For it follows from this , that when a magnet is divisible into solenoids with their ends on its surface , by joining the two ends of each solenoid by any arbitrary curve on this surface and laying a solenoid of equal strength along this curve , we obtain a series of solenoids , constituting by their superposition , a tangential distribution of magnetism in an infinitely thin sheet coinciding with the bounding surface , which produces the same resultant force at any internal or external point as the given magnet .
It is not , however , easy to deduce from this synthesis , a formula involving the requisite arbitrary functions to express a superficial distribution satisfying the existing conditions in the most general manner .
The analytical investigation given above , supplies , in reality , a complete solution of this problem .
It may be remarked that the sole condition which F , G and H , considered as functions of the coordinates , x , y , z , of some point in the surface of the magnet , and therefoIe functions of two independent variables , must satisfy in order that ( XVII .
) may express correctly the potential at any pointadH dG , fdF dH\ ( dG dF\ ( ~---+Mk dn d-y n--=l-~mPf--n,. .
( XVIII .
) , dydz dz dx die &lt; , y and z of course being supposed to satisfy the equation to the surface ; and it may be proved , by a demonstration independent of the investigation which has been given , that the second member of ( XVII .
) has the same value for any functions F , G , H whatever , which are subject to this relation .
END OF CHAPTER V.

