II .
" Researches on the Foraminifera.-Part I. General Introduction , and Monograph of the Genus Orbitolites .
" By WILLIAM B. CARPENTER , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. &amp;c. Received May 21 , 1855 .
The group of Foraminifera being one as to the structure and physiology of which our knowledge is confessedly very imperfect , and for the natural classification of which there is consequently no safe basis , the author has undertaken a careful study of some of its chief typical forms , in order to elucidate ( so far as may be possible ) their history as living beings , and to determine the value of the characters which they present to the systematist .
In the present memoir , he details the structure of one of the lowest of these types , Orbitolites , with great minuteness ; his object having been , not merely to present the results of his investigations , but also to exhibit the method by which they have been attained ; that method essentially consisting in the minute examination and comparison of a large number of specimens .
The Orbitolite has been chiefly known , until recently , through the abundance of its fossil remains in the Eocene beds of the Paris basin ; but the author , having been fortunate enough to obtain an extensive series of recent specimens , chiefly from the coast of Australia , has applied himself rather to these as his sources of information ; especially as the animals of some of them have been sufficiently well preserved by immersion in spirits , to permit their characters to be well made out .
As might have been anticipated from our knowledge of their congeners , these animals belong to the Rhizopodous type ; the soft body consisting of sarcode , without digestive cavity or organs of any kind ; and being made up of a number of segments , equal and similar to each other , which are arranged in concentric zones round a central nucleus .
This body is invested by a calcareous shell , in the substance of which no minute structure can be discerned , but which has the form of a circular disk , marked on the surface by concentric zones of closed cells , and having minute pores at the margin .
Starting from the central nucleus , -which consists of a pear-shaped mass of sarcode , nearly surrounded by a larger mass connected with it by a peduncle , the development of the Orbitolite may take place either upon a simple , or upon a complex type .
In the former ( which is indicated by the circular or oval form of the cells which show themselves at the surfaces of the disk , and by the singleness of the row of marginal pores ) , each zone consists of but a single layer of segments , connected together by a single annular stolon of sarcode ; and the nucleus is connected with the first zone , and each zone with that which surrounds it , by radiating peduncles proceeding from this annulus , which , when issuing from the peripheral zone , will pass outwards through the marginal pores , probably in the form of pseudopodia .
In the complex type , on the other hand ( which is indicated by the narrow and straight-sided form of the superficial cells , and by the multiplication of the horizontal rows of marginal pores ) , the segments of the concentric zones are elongated into vertical columns with imperfect constrictions at intervals ; instead of a single annular stolon , there are two , one at either end of these columns , between which , moreover , there are usually other lateral communications ; whilst the radiating peduncles , which connect one zone with another , are also multiplied , so as to lie in several planes .
Moreover , between each annular stolon and the neighbouring surface of the disk , there is a layer of superficial segments , distinct from the vertical columns , but connected with the annular stolons ; these occupy the narrow elongated cells just mentioned , which constitute two superficial layers in the disks of this type , between which is the intermediate layer occupied by the columnar segments .
These two types seem to be so completely dissimilar , that they could scarcely have been supposed to belong to the same species ; but the examination of a large number of specimens shows , that although one is often developed to a considerable size upon the simple type , whilst another commences even from the centre upon the complex type , yet that many individuals which begin life , and form an indefinite number of annuli , upon the simple type , then take on the more complex mode of development .
The author then points out what may be gathered from observation and from deduction respecting the Nutrition and mode of Growth of these creatures .
He shows that the former is probably accomplished , as in other Rhizopods , by the entanglement and drawing in of minute vegetable particles , through the instrumentality of the pseudopodia ; and that the addition of new zones probably takes place by the extension of the sarcode through the marginal pores , so as to form a complete annulus , thickened at intervals into segments , and narrowed between these into connecting stolons , the shell being probably produced by the calcification of their outer portions .
And this view he supports by the results of the examination of a number of specimens , in which reparation of injuries has taken place .
Regarding the Reproduction of Orbitolites , he is only able to suggest that certain minute spherical masses of sarcode , with which some of the cells are filled , may be gemmules ; and that other bodies , enclosed in firm envelopes , which he has more rarely met with , but which seem to break their way out of the superficial cells , may be ova .
But on this part of the inquiry , nothing save observation of the animals in their living state can give satisfactory results .
The regular type of structure just described is subject to numerous variations , into a minute description of which the author next enters ; the general results being , that neither the shape nor dimensions of the entire disk , the size of the nucleus or of the cells forming the concentric zones , the surface-markings indicating the shape of the superficial cells , nor the early mode of growth ( which , though typically cyclical , sometimes approximates to a spiral ) , can serve as distinctive characters of species ; since , whilst they are all found to present most remarkable differences , these differences , being strictly gradational , can only be considered as distinguishing individuals .
It thus follows that a very wide range of variation exists in this type ; so that numerous forms which would be unhesitatingly accounted specifically different , if only the most divergent examples were brought into comparison , are found , by the discovery of those intermediate links which a large collection can alone supply , to belong to one and the same specific type .
After noticing some curious monstrosities , resulting from an unusual outgrowth of the central nucleus , the author proceeds to inquire into the essential character of the Orbitolite , and its relations to other types of structure .
He places it among the very lowest forms of Foraminifera ; and considers that it approximates closely to sponges , some of which have skeletons not very unlike the calcareous net-work which intervenes between its fleshy segments .
Of the species which the genus has been reputed to include , he states that a large proportion really belong to the genus Orbitoides , whilst others are but varieties of the ordinary type .
This last is the light in which he would regard the Orbitolites complanata of the Paris basin ; which differs from the fully-developed Orbitolite of the Australian coast in some very peculiar features ( marking a less complete evolution ) , which are occasionally met with among recent forms , and which are sometimes distinctly transitional towards the perfect type .
The author concludes by calling attention to some general principles , which arise out of the present inquiry , but which are applicable to all departments of Natural History , regarding the kind and extent of comparison on which alone specific distinctions can be securely based .

