XV .
On the Identity of Columbium and Tantalum .
By Wil liam Hyde Wollaston , M. D. Sec. R. S. Read June 8 , 18o9 .
ITTHIN a short time after the discovery of columbium by Mr. HATCHETT in 8i go0 a metallic substance was also discovered in Sweden by M. EKEBERG , t differing from every metal then known to him ; and accordingly he described the properties by which it might be distinguished from those which it most nearly resembled .
But although the Swedish metal has retained the name of Tantalum given to it by M. EKEBERG , a reasonable degree of doubt has been entertained by chemists , whether these two authors had not in fact described the same substances ; and it has been regretted that the discoverers themselves , who would have been most able to remove the uncertainty , had not had opportunities of comparing their respective minerals , or the products of their analyses .
As I have lately obtained small specimens of the two Swedish minerals , tantalite and yttro-tantalite , from which I could obtain tantalum , and was very desirous of comparing its properties with those of columbium , Mr. HATCHETT very obligingly furnished me with some oxide of the latter , which remained in his possession .
0 Phil. Trans. for 802.z .
Vetenkaps Academiens Iandllngar .
1802 , p. 6S.-Journa des .
ines , Vol. XI .
L p. 245 .
c. 4 The resemblance was such in my first trials , as to induce me to endeavour to procure a further supply of columbium , and by application to the Trustees of the British Museum , I was allowed to detach a few grains from the original specimen analysed by Mr. HATCHETT .
Notwithstanding the quantity employed in my analyses was thus limited , I have , nevertheless , by proportionate economy of the materials , been enabled to render my experiments sufficiently numerous , and have found so many points of agreelent in the modes by which each of these bodies can or cannot be dissolved or precipitated , as to prove very satisfac .
torily that these American and Swedish specimens in fact contain the same metal ; and since the re-agents I have employed are in the hands of every chemist , the properties which I shall enumerate are such as will be most useful in the practical examination of any other minerals in which this metal may be found to occur .
In appearance the columbite is so like tantalite , that it is extremely difficult to discern a difference that can be relied upon .
The external surface , as well as the colour and lustre of the fracture , are precisely the same ; but columbite breaks rather more easily by a blow , and the fracture of it is less uniform , appearing in some parts irregularly shattered ; nevertheless , when the two are rubbed against each other , the hardness appears to be the same , and the colour of the scratch has the same tint of very dark brown .
By analysis also , these bodies are found to consst of the same three ingredients ; a white oxide , combined with iro and manganese .
Either of these inerals , when reduced to powder , is very Kkg 1247 readily acted upon by potash ; but as the iron contained in them is not afected by alkalies , it appeared better to add a small proportion of borax .
Five grains of columbite being mixed with twenty-five grains of carbonate of potaslt and ten grains of borax , were fused together for a few minutes , and found to be perfectly incorporated .
The colour was of a deep green , from the quantity of manganese present .
The nass when cold could be softened with water , and a portion of the oxide could be so dissolved ; but it seemed preferable to employ dilute muriatic acid , which , by dissolving all other ingredients excepting columbium , left the oxide nearly white , by the removal of iron and manganese that been combined with it .
The muriatic solution having been poured off and neutralized w'ith carbonate of ammonia , the iron was then separated by succinate of ammonia ; after which the manganese was precipitated by prussiate of potash .
The products thus obtained from five grains of columbite , after each had been heated to redness , were nearly , White oxide 4 grains Oxide of iron Oxide of maganese 4 ; but it cannot be supposed that proportions deduced from experiments made on so small a scale can be entirely depended upon , although the properties of bodies may be so discerned , nearly as well as when larger quantities are employed .
An equal weight of tantalite taken from a specimen , of which the specific gravity of 7,8 , yielded , by the same treatment , 'RMLj White oxide 4 grains Oxide of iron 2 Oxide maganese " The whiti:e oxides obtained from each of these minerals , are remarkable for their insolubility in the three common mineral acids , as both Mr. HATCErTT and M. EKEBERa have observed .
In mulriatic acid they cannot be said to be absolutely insoluble ; but they are not sufficiently soluble for the purposes of analysis .
In nitric acid they are also nearly , if not perfectly , insoluble .
In sulphuric acid , when concentrated and boiling , the oxide of columbium may be dissolved in small quantity , and so also may the oxide obtained from tantalite .
T'he proper solvent , as has been observed by Mr. HATCHETT and by M. EKEBEBG , is potash ; and as it is not required to be in its caustic state , I employed the crystallized carbonate of potash on account of its purity and uniformity .
Of this salt about eight grains seemed requisite to be fused with one of the oxide obtained from either of these minerals to render it soluble in water .
Soda also combines with the oxide , and may be said to dissolve it ; but a far larger proportion ot this alkali is necessary , and a larger quantity of water .
And although a solution may have been effected that is transparent while hot , it very soon becomes opaque in cooling , and finally almost the whole of the oxide subsides combined with a portion of the soda in a sate nearly insoluble .
249 When a solution of the white oxide , obtained from either of these minerals , has been made , as above , with potash , the whole may be precipitated by the addition of an acid , and will not be redissoved by an excess of sulphuric acid , of nitric , of muriatic , succinic , or acetic acids .
But there is a further agreement in the properties of these two minerals , which appears above all others to establish their identity ; for though they are both so nearly insoluble by any excess of the mineral acids , yet they are each completely dissolved by oxalic acid , by tartaric acid , or by citric acid ; and the solution of each is subject to the same limitations ; for if the precipitate has been dried , it is become intractable , and can scarcely be dissolved again till after a second fuson with potash .
If to the alkaline solution of either of then there be added infusion of galls , prussiate of potash , or hydrosulphuret of potash , no precipitate occurs ; but when a suffcient quantity of acid has been added to ineutralize tree redundant alkali , the infusion of ga-lls will ta:len occasion an orange precipitate ; but prussiate of potash causes no recir nr does the hydrosul phuret precipitate the oxide , althoegh the solution may become turbid from , precipitation of sulphur by a redundant acid .
The characteristic precipitant of columbiunx is consequently the infsion of galls ; but in the employment of this test certain precautions are necessary .
For as an excess of potash may prevent the appearance of this precipitate , so also rmay a small ecess of oxalic or tartaric acids prevent precipitation , or dissolve a precipitate already formed .
A larger excess of citric acid seemed requisite for that purpose , and would also dissolve the gallat of colmumbiu In each case the precp tate may be made to appear by neutralizing the redundant acid ; and for this purpose carbonate of ammonia should be employed : for although pure ammonia has no power of dissolving the .
oxide alone , yet the gallat seemed to be perfectly re-dissolved by that alkali .
When infusion of galls is poured upon the white oxide recently precipitated , and still moist , it combines readily and forms the orange-coloured compound .
Prussiate of potash occasioned no change in an oxide that iad been purified by a second ftsion with potasl ; but it appeared to dissolve a small portion of the oxide , as infusion of galls , poured into the clear liquor , occasioned a cloudy preipitate of an orange colour , though no such precipitate took place when the infusion was mixed with the same prussiate alone .
Hydrosulphuret of potash being added to the oxide , and heated upon it , impaired the whiteness of its appearance , and seemed to detect the remains of some impurity which had not yet been removed by other means ; but no appearance indicated the formation of a sulphuret of columbium .
From a careful repetition of these experiments upon each of the oxides , I see no reason to doubt of their perfect agreeent rin all their chemical properties ; but there is nevertheless avery remarkable dif rence in the specific gravities of the two minerals from which they are extracted .
Th-e specific gravity of columbie was ascertained by Mr. HIArcHETr to be 5,918 ; that of tantalite was found by M. ErE , Err ; to be 7 , S 53 , aid I have every reason to suppose their results correct , since a sanal fragdnF tit of the fbrmer eared pn tria to be 587 , hile a spcimen of tantalite , e51 weighed at the same time , was as muc as .
7,8 .
1 should however , observe , that the secific gravities of three other fragments borrowed for this purpose were not so high , that of one being 7,65 , of another 7,53 and of a third so low as 7,15 .
It is evident that no variation of mere proportion of the ingredients can account for an increase of specific gravity from 5,918 to 7,953 , which are in the ratio of g to 4 ; fo sinc columbite contains four fifths oxide , if the whole remaining one fifth part in weiglt of that oxide could be supposed added to the same bulk , without diminution of the quantities of iron and manganese , the specfic gravity would not then exceed 7,1 and even if a weight equal to one third of the whole were thus added , without increase of bulk , still the aggregate would not quite equal the heaviest tantalite in specific gravity ; but , on the contrary , the quantity of white oxide in this specimen certainly does not amount to six sevenths , and probably is not more than five sixths of the whole mass .
The only chemical difference , by which this circumstance could be explained , would be the state of oxidation , which my experiments cannot appreciate but it may also arise in rt from actual cavities in the mass of columbite , and in part from the state or mode of aggregation .

