V. On the Non-existence of Sugar in the Blood of Persons labouring under Diabetes Mellitus .
In a Letter to Alexander Marcet , M.D. F. R. S. from William Hyde Wollaston , M. D. Sec. R. S. Read January 24 , xi8 , MY DEAR SIR , IN reply to your inquiry respecting my experiments upon the non-existence of sugar in the serum of diabetic persons , which I have mentioned to you at different periods , I am really ashamed to reflect how long I have suffered them to remain neglected , when I consider their tendency to elucidate a cu.rious point of physiological research .
My first endeavours to detect sugar in the serum of the blood were made soon after perusing the second edition of Dr. ROLLO'S Treatise on the Diabetes ( which was pubiished in 1798 , ) at the request of Dr. BAILLIE , who was so ob !
iging as to furnish me with various specimens of diabetic blood and serum for this purpose .
The other set of experiments which I made with reference to the same question were not thought of till the following year .
The inquiry was then left unfinished , and I never resumed it ; for as I soon after* relinquished the practice of physic , I desisted in a great measure from prosecuting any inquiries connected with medicine .
However , since so much of this subject as is strictly physio* In 1800 .
logical , relating to the natural course of circulating fluids , and more especially so much of the investigation as is conducted by chemical means , is within the range of those pursuits which are generally interesting to the Royal Society , I will endea .
your to give you as distinct an account as I am able of the progress of my own experiments , requesting that you will ill return state , more fully than you have hitherto done , the result of that further step in the inquiry which you took at my suggestion , and if it is agreeable to you , we will without delay make a joint communication of our researches to the Society .
Although Dr. ROLLO had been assisted in the chemical part of his inquiry by the well known talents of Mr. CRUICKSHIANK , it appears that they " s had not been so fortunate as to obtain cc a sufficient quantity of serum for chemical experiment ; " * and were unable fully to satisfy themselves by the taste or by other means which they could employ , concerning the existence or non-existence of sugar in the blood of persons labouring under diabetes ; but nevertheless they were persuaded of its presence .
For the purpose of forming some judgment on this question , Mr. CRUICKSHANK made trial of the quantities of oxalic acid that could be formed from serum or from blood in their natural state , and from the same serum or blood after the addition of a certain proportion of sugar ; and from the difference perceptible in these trials , he formed a probable conjecture respecting the presence or absence of sugar in the serunm of diabetic persons .
This method , it is evident , is liable to a two-fold objection : first , that an excess of other ingredients beside sugar will cause an increase of the quantity of oxalic acid formed , and secondly , that slight variations in the process for forming oxalic acid will unavoidably occasion differences in the result .
The method which I employed appears to me capable of detecting much smaller quantities of such an ingredient , for though it might not enable us to distinguish exactly the nature of any small quantity that may be discovered , still the mere question of absence or presence admits of determination with great precision .
For this purpose I investigated , in the first place , how the albuminous part of healthy serum could be most completely coagulated , and by what appearances the presence of sugar that had been added to it would be most easily discerned .
When heat alone had been employed for the coagulation of serum , to which water had been added , that which exsuded from it was still found to contain a portion of albumen dissolved in it , and if this were allowed to remain , any saccharine matter which might be present would be disguised , and could not with certainty be detected .
I found , however , that this residuum of coagulable matter might be altogether prevented by the addition of a small quantity of dilute acid to the serum before coagulation.* To six drams of serum I added half a dram of muriatic acid previously diluted with one dram and a half of water , and immersed the phial containing them in boiling water during four minutes .
The coagulation was thus rendered complete .
In the course of a few hours a dram or more of water exsudes from serum that has been so coagulated .
If a drop of this water be evaI presumed that this portion of albumen was retained in solution by the alkali redundant in serum , and added the acid for the purpose of neutralizing it. .
98 porated , the salts which it contains are found to crystallize , so that the form of the crystals may be easily distinguished ; they are principally common salt .
If any portion of saccharine matter has been added to the serum previous to coagulation , the crystallization of the salts is impeded , or wholly prevented , according to the quantity of sugar present .
If the quantity added does not exceed two grains and a half to the ounce , the crystallization is not prevented ; but even this small quantity is perceptible by a degree of blackness that appears after evaporation : occasioned , as I suppose , by the action of a small excess of acid on the sugar .
If five grains have been added , the crystallization is very imperfect , and soon disappears in a moist air by deliquescence of the sugar .
The blackness is also deeper than in the former case .
By addition of ten grains to the ounce , the crystallization of the salts is entirely prevented , and the degree of blackness , and disposition to deliquesce are of course more manifest than with smaller quantities.* As I was aware that the sugar obtained from diabetic urine is a different substance from common sugar ( approaching more nearly to the sugar of figs ) , I had the precaution to repeat the same series of experiments upon serum , to which I made corresponding additions of dry sugar , that I had formerly extracted from the urine of a person who voided it in considerable quantity ; and I found the effects to be perfectly similar in every respect .
As a further test of the absence or presence of sugar , I found it convenient to add a little nitric acid to the salts that remained after crystallization of the drop .
If the serum has been successfully coagulated without any addition of sugar , the addition of nitric acid merely converts the muriatic salts into nitrates , and nitrate of soda is seen to crystallize without foam or blackness .
But when sugar has been added , a white foam rises round the margin of the drop , and if further heat be applied , it becomes black in proportion to the quantity of sugar present .
Such are the appearances when the proportions have been duly adjusted , and the proper heat for coagulation applied .
I must own , however , that I could not always succeed to my satisfaction at the time when these experiments were conducted , and I am inclined to ascribe occasional failures to having used more muriatic acid than was really necessary , which by excess of heat might redissolve a part of the coagulated albumen , and thence occasion appearances , which , without careful discrimination , might be ascribed to sugar .
After having , by this course of experiment , satisfied myself as to the phenomena exhibited by serum in its natural state , and the effects of any small additions of sugar , I then proceeded to the examination of such specimens of diabetic blood or of serum , as I was able to procure .
The first which I examined was a portion of blood that had been taken from a person whose urine had been analysed , and found to contain sugar .
This blood had been dried , when fresh , by a gentle heat , so as not to coagulate the serum .
After being reduced to powder , it was mixed with water , in order that every thing which remained soluble might be exN -.i ^ ^:'l : = : L. : : *s::=:.:.:~:::E:Ai. .
: Ei E H:'.E=-d ='--- ; -:S. .
i-- , ' C : r':::Li:.R .
: ; : .
: : : C:::i:i : : -1- : =0i Ai : ' ' : ; ''E:k ; ai E:E':'-S -SS5 -=--= , =X::::-= : : : : ' ':::::::D':E : : , = h : 'H , ; i &lt; 9= , , ; , RR , ' : =TT f !
.l '4.E ; 0i ' ; n ?
Wi 5S LS S''iR'S P : 'L ' '* S ?
?i_ . ?
: &gt; .:.:--jK -:s ; Z X:0Hs.:0 !
:3G , a , , .
; , { : 10t0 i , : , , f , , : 0 f : VX0 it A00 00 : _ _ , , .
'i , tracted .
A little muriatic acid was then added , and sufficient heat applied for coagulation of the albumen .
The water that separated after coagulation was found to contain the salts of the blood , but no trace whatever of sugar .
A second specimen of dried blood , that had been ascertained to be diabetic on the same evidence as the preceding , was examined in a similar manner , with the same result , as no appearance of sugar could be discerned .
In a third instance , I had some serum from the blood of a person whose urine had been tasted , and found " very sweet .
" ( I had no opportunity of procuring any of this urine for analysis ) .
After a portion of this serum had been coagulated , with the addition of the usual proportion of muriatic acid , there was no appearance whatever of sugar .
But when three grains of diabetic sugar had been added to another ounce of the same serum , the presence of this quantity was manifest by the same process .
I had also a fourth opportunity of examining serum of a person whose urine contained so much saccharine matter , that an ounce of it yielded , by evaporation , thirty-six grains of extract .
In this instance I was not so successful in my experiment ; for , though I was satisfied that no sugar was present , there certainly was a degree of blackness , which might have been occasioned by about one grain and a half of sugar in the ounce of serum .
But this black matter appeared not to be sugar : it was more easily dried than sugar : it was not fusible by heat as sugar is : and its refractive power* was too great for that of sugar .
I unfortunately had no opportunity of repeating the experiment on a second portion of the same serum , having inconsiderately employed it for other experiments , and coagulated it at the same time with the former .
In the next experiment I added half a dram of the urine of the same person to six drams of the serum and with a due proportion of diluted muriatic acid coagulated as before .
Although the quantity of extract added did not exceed 3 , or two grains and a quarter of extract , the difference was very manifest by the darkness of the colour and the defective crystallization of the salts .
To the remaining quantity of the serum I had added twice the former proportion of the urine , and found that this quantity did not wholly prevent the crystallization of the salts during the evaporation of the drop .
The result of these trials was such , as to satisfy me that the serum in this instance contained no perceptible quantity of sugar , or at least that the water separable from the coagulated serum did not contain one-thirtieth part of that proportion which I had found in the urine of the same person .
In order to account for the presence of sugar in the urine , we must consequently either suppose a power in the kidneys of forming this new product by secretion , which does not seem to accord with the proper office of that organ ; or , if we suppose the sugar to be formed in the stomach by a process of imperfect assimilation , we must then admit the existence of some channel of conveyance from the stomach to the bladder , without passing through the general system of blood-vessels .
That some such channel does exist , Dr. DARWINe endeavoured * Account of the retrograde Motion of the absorbent Vessels , by CHARLES DARWIN .
to ascertain , by giving large doses of nitre , which he could perceive to pass with the urine , but could not detect in its passage through the blood ; and he imagined the channel by which it was conveyed to be the absorbent system , upon the supposition that they might admit of a retrograde motion of their contents .
Without adopting the theory of Dr. DARWIN , it did appear to me that the fact deserved to be ascertained by some test more decisive than nitre , and I conceived that if prussiate of potash could be taken with safety , its presence would be discerned by means of a solution of iron in as small proportion as almost any known chemical test .
Upon trial of this salt , I found that a solution of it might be taken without the least inconvenience , and that in less than one hour and a half the urine became perceptibly impregnated , and continued so to the fifth or sixth hour , although the quantity taken had not amounted to more than three grains of the salt .
After a few previous trials of the period when the principal impregnation of the urine might be expected , and when the presence of the prussiate ( if it existed in the blood ) might with most reason be presumed to occurF , healthy person about thirty-four years of age was induced to take a dose corresponding to three grains and a half of the dry salt , and to repeat it every hour to the third time .
The urine being examined every half hour , was found in two hours to be tinged , and to afford a deep blue at the end of four hours .
Blood was then taken from the arm , and the coagulum , after it had formed , was allowed to contract , so that the serum might be fully separated .
The presence of the prussiate was then endeavoured to be discovered by means of a solution of iron , but without effect ; and as I thought that the redundant alkali ( which had been ascertained to prevail in this serum ) might tend to prevent the appearance of the precipitate , I added a small quantity of dilute acid ; but still I could not discern that any degree of blueness was occasioned by it .
This experiment having been repeated a second time with the same result , seemed to me nearly conclusive with respect to the existence of some passage , by which substances certainly known to be in the stomach may find their way to the bladder without being mixed with the general mass of circulating fluids .
Being desirous of ascertaining whether the prussiate could be discovered in any other secretions , I have repeatedly examined my saliva , at times when the urine has manifested a very strong blue , by adding solution of iron , but I could at no time perceive the saliva to be tinged .
I have also , during a severe cold , accompanied with profuse running of water from the nose , made a similar examination of this discharge , but have not been able to perceive any trace of the prussic acid .
It was nearly in this state that I left the inquiry at the period I have mentioned , and I do not remember to have made any other experiments , when I requested your assistance in making trial of the serum that is secreted in consequence of the application of a blister .
Your report upon the result of your experiments , in addition to those which I have above related , nearly satisfied me as to the existence of some unknown channel of conveyance by which substances may reach the bladder .
With respect to Dr. DARWIN'S conception of a retrograde 1044 action of the absorbents , it is so strongly opposed by the known structure of that system of vessels , that I believe few persons will admit it to be in any degree probable .
Since we have become acquainted with the surprising chemical effects of the lowest states of electricity , I have been inclined to hope that we might from that source derive some explanation of such phenomena .
But the , ugh I have referred " secretion in general to the agency of the electric power with which the nerves appear to be endued , and am thereby reconciled to the secretion of acid urine , from blood that is known to be alkaline , which before that time seemed highly paradoxical , and although the transfer of the prussiate of potash , of sugar , or of other substances may equally be effected by the same power as acting cause , still the channel through which they are conveyed remains to be discovered by direct experiment .
I have , indeed , conjectured that , by examining the blood in the abdominal vessels , or contents of the lacteals , it might be possible to detect them in transitu ; but I have not been indined to make such experiments on living animals , as would perhaps throw light upon the subject .
I remain , Dear Sir , with great regard , yours very truly , W. H. WOLLASTON , January I , 1811 .
* Philosophical Magazine for June 1809 .
D. ARChET'S Reptl Reply of r. MARCET On 1eth same Subec Russell Square , January 8s .
181 MY DEAn SIR , IAM much gratified to find that you have at last been induced to communicate to the Royal Society your curious inquiry respecting the state of the blood in diabetes .
I was anxious that the specious hypothesis of the presence of sugar in diabetic blood , which had been sanctioned by the authority of Dr. RoLLo and Mr. CRUICKSHANK , and which I had myself urged in support of their theory , fourteen years ago , in an inaugural publication , should no longer obtain an undue weight amongst physiological inquirers .
With regard to the experiments which I tried at your request some years ago , with a view to ascertain whether prus .
siat of potash taken into the stomach , and found to exist in the urine , could also be detected in other secretions , i nd , on referring to my memorandums , the following particulars which I shall transcribe verbatim .
August 19 , 18o7 .
Having heard from Dr. WOLLASTON , that prussiat of potash could be taken into the stomach with perfect safety , and that its presnce could afterwards be discovered in the urine , but not in the serum ; and being invited by hin to follow up this nquiry , with a view to connect it with the theory of diabetes , I tried the following experiments .
Experiment i. " C After having satisfied myself , by trials made by some medical gentlemen upon themselves , that considerable doses of prussiat of potash might be taken without the least inconvenience , I gave to a young woman labouring under diabetes mellitus , five grains of prussiat of potash dissolved in water , and this was repeated every hour till she had taken thirteen or fourteen such doses .
After the fifth dose , her urine , by the addition of a drop or two of a solution of sulphat of iron , turned blue instantly .
At this period of the experiment , a blister was applied to her stomach , and after a few hours , whilst still taking the prussiat of potash , and whilst the urine strongly indicated its presence , the blister was cut and the serum collected .
This serous fluid being , in the same manner as the urine , subjected to the action of a solution of sulphat of iron , did not suffer any change of colour in the least indicative of the presence of prussic acid .
Yet the urine still remained capable of imparting a blue colour to solution of iron , fifteen hours after taking the last dose of the prussiat of potash .
Experiment 2 .
" The same person being soon afterwards put upon a course of ferruginous medicines , and having taken considerable quantities of sulphat of iron , an idea naturally occurred to me that the phenomenon might perhaps be reversed ; but upon adding prussiat of potash to the urine , no vestige of iron could be discovered , and the same attempt was repeated several times with the same negative result .
p2 1o7 Experiment S. " Dec. 2 , 1807 .
The fluid obtained by means of a blister ( as in Experiment i , ) being not immediately derived from the circulation , since it may be considered as the product of a secretion , I was desirous of repeating Dr. WOLLASTON'S experiment on the serum itself , under circumstances of impregnation similar to those in which the serum of the blister was examined .
For this purpose , a young woman after taking , in divided doses , about a dram of prussiat of potash in the course of twelve hours , lost some blood by cupping , an operation which had been ordered for a local complaint under which she laboured .
The serum having been allowed to separate , and a little nitric acid having been added to it , not the least vestige of prussic acid appeared in applying the test of sulphat of iron , although the urine made during the six hours which preceded and followed the cupping , was strongly impregnated with that acid , and struck a vivid blue upon adding the smallest quantity of iron .
" I have only to observe , in additon to these particulars , that the susceptibility by which prussiat of potash is transmitted to the bladder , seems to vary in different individuals ; for in five trials , made at Guy 's Iospital in Nov. 1805 , I failed of discovering any vestige of that salt in the urine of persons who had taken it in quantiies suffcient to produce its appearance in others .
Three of these individuals , I should observe , were at the time under mercurial treatment , and an idea occurred to me that 1o8 nercury having a great affinity for prussic acid , the presence of that metal in the system might prevent the effect in question .
But as in the two other failures , no mercury was present , I cannot lay any stress upon that conjecture .
It may be proper to mention , that in the frequent trials which I have made with the prussiat of potash , no symptom or inconvenience whatever has ever occurred which could be ascribed to that salt , I remain ever , my dear Sir , with great esteem , your 's sincerely , ALEX .
MARCET .
P S. Whilst revising the proof of this sheet , it has been observed to me by some friends , and in particular by Dr. HENRY of Manchestr , and Dr. R. PEARSON of London , that in order to show distinctly that certain substances find their way to the bladder , without passing through the general circulation , it would be necessary to examine the arterial , as well as the venous blood , since it is not impossible that the whole of the sugar in diabetes , or the prussiat of potash in the experiments above related , may be conveyed to the urinary organs by the arteries , without entering the venous system .
Ac cording to this hypothesis , it may be conceived that the same substances when conveyed by the arteries to distant parts of the body , may return by the absorbent system , and migXt in that case be discovered in the thoraic duct This view of the subject may deserve further investigation ; and I hope that this curious question will soon be decided by appropriate xperi ?
ments .
10g

