IX .
Experiments for investigating the Cause of the coloured concentric Rings , discovered by Sir Isaac Newton , between two Object-glasses laid upon one another .
By William Herschel , LLD .
F.R.S. Read February 5 , -1807 .
THE account given by Sir I. NEWTON , of the coloured arcs and rings which he discovered by laying two prisms or objectglasses upon each other , is highly interesting .
He very justly remarks , that these phenomena are " of difficult consideration , " but that " they may conduce to farther discoveries for " completing the theory of light , especially as to the consti " tution of the parts of natural bodies on which their colours " or transparency depend."* With regard to the explanation of the appearance of these coloured rings , which is given by Sir I. NEWTON , I must confess that it has never been satisfactory to me .
He accounts for the production of the rings , by ascribing to the rays of light certain fits of easy reflection and easy transmission alternately returning and taking place with each ray at certain stated intervals.t But this , without mentioning particular objections , seems to be an hypothesis which cannot be easily reconciled with the minuteness and extreme velocity of the particles of which these rays , according to the NEWTONIAN theory , are composed .
NEWTON 's Optics , 4th ed. p. 169 .
f Ibid. p. 256 , The great beauty of the coloured rings , and the pleasing appearances arising from the different degrees of pressure of the two surfaces of the glasses against each other when they are formed , and especially the importance of the subject , have often excited my desire of enquiring farther into the cause of such interesting phenomena ; and with a view to examine them properly I obtained , in the year 179g , the two object-glasses of HUYGENS , in the possession of the Royal Society , one of 122 , the other of 170 feet focal length , and began a series of experiments with them , which , though many times interrupted by astronomical pursuits , has often been taken up again , and has lately been carried to a very considerable extent .
The conclu- : sions that may be drawn from them , though they may not perfectly account for all the phenomena of the rings , are yet sufficiently well supported , and of such a nature as to point out several modifications of light that have been totally overlooked , and others that have never been properly discriminated .
It will , therefore , be the aim of this paper to arrange and distinguish the various modifications of light in a clear and perspicuous order , and afterwards to give my sentiments upon the cause of the formation of the concentric rings .
The avowed intricacy of the subject , * however , requires , in the first place , a minute detail of experiments , and afterwards a very gradual developement of the consequences to be deduced from them .
As the word modification will frequently be used , it may not be amiss to say , that when applied to light , it is inteeded to stand for a general expression of all the changes that are made in its colours , diection , or motion : thus , by thel.m : ii-f cation of reflection , light is thrown back ; by that of refraction , it is bent from its former course I by the modification of dispersion , it is divided into colours , and so of the rest .
I. Of different Methods to make one set of concentric Rings visible .
In the beginning of my experiments I followed the NEWTONIAN example , and having laid the two object-glasses of HUYGENS upon one another I soon perceived the concentric rings .
It is almost needless to say that I found all the NEWTONIAN observations of these rings completely verified ; but as his experiments seemed to be too much confined for drawing general conclusions , I endeavoured to extend them : and by way of rendering the methods I point out very clear , I have given one easy particular instance of each , with the addition of a generalization of it , as follows : First Method .
On a table placed before a window I laid down a slip of glass the sides of which were perfectly plain,.parallel , and highly polished .
Upon this I laid a double convex lens of 26 inches focal length , and found that this arrangement gave me a set of beautiful concentric rings .
I viewed them with a double convex eye lens of 22 inches focus mounted upon an adjustable stand , by which simple apparatus I could examine them with great ease ; and as it was not material to my present purpose by what obliquity of incidence of light I saw the rings , I received the rays from the window most conveniently when they fell upon the lens in an angle of about o3 degrees from the perpendicular , the eye being placed on the opposite side at an equal angle of elevation to receive the reflected rays .
Generalization .
Instead of a plain slip of glass , the plain side of a plano-concave , or plano-convex lens of any focal length whatsoever may be used : and when the convex side of any lens is laid upon it , whatever , may be the figure of the other surface , whether plain , concave , or convex , and whatever may be its focal length , a set of concentric rings will always be obtained .
I have seen rings with lenses of all varieties of focus , from 170 feet down to one quarter of an inch .
Even a common watch glass laid upon the same plain surface will give them .
To insure success , it is necessary that the glasses should be perfectly well cleaned from any adhering dust or soil , especially about the point of contact ; and in laying them upon each other a little pressure should be used , accompanied at first with a little side motion , after which they must be left at rest .
If the surface of the incumbent lens , especially when it is of a very short focal length , is free from all imperfLction and highly polished , the adjustment of thei focus of the above mentioned eye-glass , which I always use for viewing the rizlgs , is rather troublesome , in which case a small spot of ink made upon the lens will serve as an object for a sufficient adjustment to find the rings .
Second Method .
Instead of the slip of glass , I laid down a well polished plain metalline mirror ; and placing upon it the same ?
6-inch double convex lens , I saw again a complete set of concentric rings .
It is singular that , in this case , the rings reflected from a bright metalline surface will appear fainter than when the same lens is laid on a surface of glass reflecting but little light ; this may however be accounted for hyb the brilliancy of the Bb A8 .
metalline ground on which these faint rings are seen , the contrast of which will offuscate their feeble appearance .
Generalization .
On the same metalline surface every variety of lenses may be laid , whatever be the figure of their upper surface , whether plain , concave , or convex , and whatever be their focal lengths , provided the lowest surface remains convex , and concentric rings will always be obtained ; but for the reason mentioned in the preceding paragraph , very small lenses should not be used till the experimentalist has been familiarised with the method of seeing these rings , after which lenses of two inches focus , and gradually less , may be tried .
Third Method .
Hitherto we have only used a plain surface upon which many sorts of glasses have been placed ; in order therefore to obtain a still greater variety , I laid down a planoconvex lens of 15 inches focal length , and upon the convex surface of it I placed the 26-inch double convex lens , which produced a complete set of rings .
Fourth Method .
The same lens placed upon a convex metalline mirror of about 15 inches focal length gave also a complete set of rings .
Generalization .
These two cases admit of a much greater variety than the first and second methods ; for here the incumbent glass may have not only one , but both its surfaces of any figure whatsoever ; whether plain , concave , or convex ; provided the radius of concavity , when concave lenses are laid upon the convex surface of glass or metal , is greater than that of the convexity on which they are laid .
The figure of the lowest surface of the subjacent substance , when it is glass , may also be plain , concave , or convex ; and the curvature of its upper surface , as well as of the mirror , may be such as to give them any focal length , provided the radius of their convexities is less than that of the concavity of an incumbent lens ; in all which cases complete sets of concentric rings will be obtained .
Fifth Method .
Into the concavity of a double concave glass of 8 inches focal length I placed a 7-inch double convex lens , and saw a very beautiful ' set of rings .
Sixth Method .
Upon a7 feet concave metalline mirror I placed the double convex 26-inch lens , and had a very fine set 6f rings .
Generalization .
With these two last methods , whatever may be the radius of the concavity of the subjacent surface , provided it be greater than that of the convexity of the incumbent glass ; and whatever may be the figure of the upper surface of the lenses that are placed upon the former , there will be produced concentric rings .
The figure of the lowest surface of the subjacent glass may also be varied at pleasure , and still concentric:rings will be obtained .
II .
Of seeing Rings by Transmission .
The great variety of the different combinations of these differently figured glasses and mirrors will still admit of further addition , by using a different way of viewing the rings .
Hitherto , the arrangement of the apparatus has been such as to make them visible only by reflection , which is evident , because all the experiments that have been pointed out may be made by the light of a candle placed so that the angle of incidence and of reflection towards the eye of the .
observer , may be equal .
But ' Sir I. NEWTON has given us also an observation where : he saw these rings by transmission , in consequence ofwhich I have:again multiplied and varied the method of producing them that way , as follows : First Method .
On a slip of plain glass highly polished on both sides place the same double convex lens of 26 inches , which had already been used when:the rings were seen by reflection .
Take them both up together and hold them against the light of a window , in which position the concentric rings will be seen with great ease by transmitted light .
But as the use of an eye-glass will not be convenient in this situation , it will be necessary to put on a pair of spectacles with glasses of , 6 , or 7 inches focus , to magnify the rings in order to see them more readily .
Second Method .
It would be easy to construct an apparatus for viewing the rings by transmission fitted with a proper eyeglass ; but other methods of effecting the same purpose are preferable .
Thus , if the two glasses that are to give the rings be laid upon a hollow stand , a candle placed at a proper angle and distance under them will show the rings conveniently by transmitted light , while the observer and the apparatus remain in the same situation as if they were to be seen by reflection .
Third Method .
A still more eligible way is to use daylight received upon a plain metalline ` mirror reflecting it upwards to the glasses placed over it , as practised in the construction of the common double microscope ; but I forbear entering into a farther detail of this last and most useful way of seeing rings by transmission , as I shall soon have occasion to say more on the same subject .
Generalization .
Every combination of glasses that has been explained in the first , third , and fifth methods of seeing rings by reflection will also give them by transmission , when exposed to the light in any of the three ways that have now been pointed out .
When these are added to the former , it will be allowed that we have an extensive variety of arrangements for every desirable purpose of making experiments upon rings , as far as single sets of them are concerned .
II .
Of Shadows .
When two or more sets of rings are to be seen , it will require some artificial means,.not only to examine them critically , but even to perceive them ; and here the shadow of some slender opaque body will be of eminent service .
To cast shadows of a proper size and upon places where they are wanted , a pointed penknife may be used as follows .
When a plain slip of glass or convex lens is laid down , and the point of a penknife is brought over either of them , it will cast two shadows , one of which may be seen on the first surface of the glass or lens , and the other on the lowest .
When two slips of glass are laid upon each other , or a convex lens upon one slip , so that both are in contact , the penknife will give three shadows ; but if the convex lens should be of a very short focus , or the slips of glass a little separated , four of them may be perceived ; for in that case there will be one formed on the lowest surface of the incumbent glass or lens ; but in my distinction of shadows this will not be noticed .
Of the three shadows thus formed the second will be darker than the first , but the third will be faint .
When a piece of looking glass is substituted for the lowest slip the third shadow will be the strongest .
Three slips of glass in contact , or two slips with a lens upon them , or also a looking glass , a slip and a lens put together , will give four shadows , one from each upper surface and one from the bottom of the lowest of them .
In all these cases a metalline mirror may be laid under the same arrangement without adding to the number of ?
shadows , its effect being only to render them more intense and distinct .
The shadows may be distinguished by the following method..When the point of the penknife is made to ' touch the surface of the uppermost glass or lens , it willt touch the .
point of its own shadow , which may thus at any time be easily ascertained : and this inall cases I call the first shadow ; that which is next.to it ; the second ; .
after which follows the third , and so , on .
In receding from the point , the shadows will mix together , and thus become more intense ; but which , or how many of them are united together , may always be known by the points of the shadows .
When a shadow is to be thrown upon any required place , hold the penknife nearly half an inch above theglasses , and advance its edge foremost gradually towards the incident light .
The front should be held a little downwards to keep the light from the underside of the penknife , and the shadows to be used should be obtained from a narrow part of it .
: With this preparatory information it will be easy to point out the use that is to be made of the shadows when they are wanted .
IV .
Of two sets of Rings .
I shall now proceed to describe a somewhat more complicated way of observation , by which two complete sets of concentric rings may be seen at once .
The niew or .
additional set will furnish us with an opportunity of examining rings in situations where they have .
never been seen before , which will be of eminent service for investigating the cause of their origin , and with the assistance of the shadows to be formed , as has been explained , we shall not find it difficult to see them in these situations .
First Method .
Upon a well polished piece of good lookingglass lay down a double convex lens of about 20 inches focus .
When the eye glass has been adjusted as usual for seeing one set of rings , make the shadow of the penknife in the order which has been described , pass over the lens ; then , as it sometimes happens in this arrangement that no rings are easily to be seen , the shadow will , in its passage over the surface , show where they are situated .
When a set of them is perceived , which is generally the primary one , bring the third shadow of the penknife over it , in which situation it will be seen to the greatest advantage .
Then , if at the same time a secondary set of rings has not yet been discovered , it will certainly be perceived when the second shadow of the penknife is brought upon the primary set .
As soon as it has been found out , the compound shadow , consisting of all the three shadows united , may then be thrown upon this secondary set , in order to view it at leisure and in perfection .
But this compound shadow should be taken no farther from the point than is necessary to cover it ; nor should the third shadow touch the primary set .
The two sets are so near together , that many of the rings of one set intersect some of the other .
When a sight of the secondary set has been once obtained , it will be very easy to view it alternately with the primary one by a slight motion of the penknife , so as to make the third shadow of it go from one set to the other .
Besides the use of the shadows , there is another way to make rings visible when they cannot be easily perceived , which is to take hold of the lens with both hands , to press it alternately a little more with one than with the other ; a tilting motion , given to the lens in this manner , will move the two sets of rings from side to side ; and as it is well known that a faint object in motion may be sooner perceived than when it is at rest , both sets of rings will by these means be generally detected together .
It will also contribute much to facilitate the method of seeing two sets of rings , if we receive the light in a more oblique angle of incidence , such as 4o , 50 , or even 60 degrees .
This will increase the distance between the centers of the primary and secondary sets , and at the same time occasion a more copious reflection of light .
Instead of a common looking-glass a convex glass mirror may be used , on which may be placed either a plain , a concave , or a convex surface of any lens or glass , and two sets of rings will be obtained .
In the same manner , by laying upon a concave glass mirror a convex lens , we shall also have two sets of rings .
The generalizations that have been mentioned when one set of rings was proposed to be obtained , may be easily applied with proper regulations , according to the circumstances of the case , not only to the method by glass mirrors already mentioned , but likewise to all those that follow hereafter , and need not be particularised for the future .
In the choice of the surfaces to be joined , we have only to select such as will form a I central contact , the focal length of the lenses and the figure of the upper surface being variable at pleasure .
Second Method .
On a plain metalline mirror I laid a parallel slip of glass , and placed upon it the convex surface of a 17-inch plano-convex lens , by which means two sets of rings were produced .
Upon the same mirror the plain side of the plano-convex glass may be laid instead of the plain slip , and any plain , convex , or concave surface being placed upon the convexity of the subjacent lens , will give two sets of rings .
The plain side of a plano-concave glass may also be placed upon the same mirror , and into the concavity may be laid any lens that will make a central contact with it , by which arrangement two sets of rings will be obtained .
Third Method .
Upon a small well polished slip of glass place another slip of the same size , and upon them lay a 39-inch double convex lens .
This will produce two sets of rings ; one of them reflected from the upper surface of the first slip of glass , and the other from that of the second .
Instead of the uppermost plain slip of glass we may place upon the lowest slip the plain side of a plano-convex or plano-concave lens , and the same variety which has been ex.plained in the third method , by using any incumbent lens that will make a central contact , either with the convexity or concavity of the subjacent glass , will always produce two sets of rings .
Fourth Method .
A more refined but rather more difficult way of seeing two sets of rings , is to lay a plain slip of glass on a piece of black paper , and when a convex lens is placed upon the slip , there may be perceived , but not without C c particular attention , not only the first set , which has already been pointed out as reflected from the first surface of the slip , but also a faint secondary set from the lowest surface of the same slip of glass .
It will be less difficult to see two sets of rings by a reflection from both surfaces of the same glass , if we use , for instance , a double concave of 8 inches focus with a double convex of 7inches placed upon it .
For , as it is well known that glass will reflect more light from the farthest surface when air rather than a denser medium is in contact with it , the hollow space of the 8-inch concave will give a pretty strong reflection of the secondary set .
Fifth Method .
The use that is intended to be made of two sets of rings requires that one of them should be dependent upon the other : this is a circumstance that will be explained hereafter , but the following instance , where two independent sets of rings are given , will partly anticipate the subject .
When a double convex lens of 50 inches is laid down with a slip of glass placed upon it , and another double convex one of 26 inches is then placed upon the slip , we get two sets of rings of different sizes ; the large rings are from the 5o-inch glass , the small rings from the 26-inch one .
They are to be seen with great ease , because they are each of them primary .
By tilting the incumbent lens or the slip of glass these two sets of rings may be made to cross each other in any direction ; the small set may be laid upon the large one , or either of them may be separately removed towards any part of the glass .
This will be sufficient to show that they have no connection with each other .
The phatnomena of the motions , and of the various colours and sizes assumed by these rings , 192 when different pressures and tiltings of the glasses are used will afford some entertainment .
With the assistance of the shadow of the penknife the secondary set belonging to the rings from the 26-inch lens will be added to the other two sets ; but in tilting the glasses this set will never leave its primary one , while that from the 5o-inch lens may be made to go any where across the other two .
V. Of three Sets of Rings .
To see three sets of concentric rings at once is attended with some difficulty , but by the assistance of the methods of tilting the glasses and making use of the multiplied shadows of a penknife we may see them very well , when there is a sufficient illumination of bright daylight .
First Method .
A a6-inch double convex lens placed upon three slips of plain glass will give three sets of rings .
The slips of glass should be nearly 2-tenths of an inch thick , otherwise the different sets will not be sufficiently separated .
When all the glasses are in full contact the first and second sets may be seen with a little pressure and a small motion , and , if circumstances are favourable the third , which is the faintest , will also appear .
If it cannot be seen , some of the compound shadows of the penknife must be thrown upon it ; for in this case there will be five shadows visible , several of which will fall together and give different intensity to their mixture .
Second Method .
When a single slip of glass , with a 34-inch lens upon it , is placed upon a piece of good looking-glass , three sets of rings may be seen : the first and third sets are pretty bright , and will be perceived by only pressing the lens a little upon the slip of glass ; after which it will be easy to find the 193 second set with the assistance of the proper shadow .
In this case four shadows will be seen ; and when the third shadow is upon the first set , the fourth will be over the second set and render it visible .
Third Method .
When two slips of glass are laid upon a plain metalline mirror , then a 26-inch lens placed upon the slips will produce three sets of rings ; but it is not very easy to perceive them .
By a tilting motion the third set will generally appear like a small white circle , which at a proper distance will follow the movement of the first set .
As soon as the first and third sets are in view the third shadow of the penknife may be brought over the first set , by which means the fourth shadow will come upon the second set , and in this position of the apparatus it will become visible .
Fourth Method .
On a plain metalline mirror lay one slip of glass , but with a small piece of wood at one end under it , so that it may be kept about one-tenth of an inch from the mirror , and form an inclined plane .
A 26-inch lens laid upon the slip of glass will give three sets of rings .
Two of them will easily be seen ; and when the shadow of the penknife is held between them the third set will also be perceived .
There is but one shadow visible in this arrangement , which is the third ; the first and second shadows being lost in the bright reflection from the mirror .
Fifth Method .
I placed a 6G-inch double convex upon an 8-inch double concave , and laid both together upon a plain slip of glass .
This arrangement gave three sets of rings .
They may be seen without the assistance of shadows , by using only pressure and tilting .
The first had a black and the other two had white centers .
VI .
Offour Sets of Rings .
The difficulty of seeing many sets of rings increases with their number , yet by a proper attention to the directions that are given four sets of concentric rings may be seen .
First Method .
Let a slip of glass , with a 26-inch lens laid upon it , be placed upon a piece of looking-glass .
Under one end of the slip , a small piece of wood one-tenth of an inch thick must be put to keep it from touching the looking-glass .
This arrangement will give us four sets of rings .
The first , third , and fourth may easily be seen , but the second set will require some management .
Of the three shadows , which this apparatus gives , the second and third must be brought between the first and fourth sets of rings , in which situation the second set of rings will become visible .
Second Method .
When three slips of glass are laid upon a metalline mirror , and a plano-convex lens of about 17 inches focus is placed with its convex side upon them , four sets of rings may be seen ; but this experiment requires a very bright day , and very clean , highly polished slips of plain glass .
Nor can it be successful unless all the foregoing methods of seeing multiplied sets of rings are become familiar and easy .
I have seen occasionally , not only four and five , but even six sets of concentric rings , from a very simple arrangement of glasses : they arise from reiterated internal reflections ; but it will not be necessary to carry this account of seeing multiplied sets of rings to a greater length .
VII .
Of the Size of the Rings .
The diameter of the concentric rings depends upon the 195 radius of the curvature of the surfaces between which they are formed .
Curvatures of a short radius , ceteris paribus , give smaller rings than those of a longer ; but Sir I. NEWTON -having already treated on this part of the subject at large , it will not be necessary to enter farther into it .
I should however remark , that when two curves are concerned , it is the application of them to each other that will determine the size of the rings , so that large ones may be produced from curvatures of a very short radius .
A double convex lens of 24-inches focus , for instance , when it is laid upon a double concave which is but little more in focal length , gives rings that are larger than those from a lens of 26 inches laid upon a plain slip of glass .
VIII .
Of Contact .
The size of the rings is considerably affected by pressure .
They grow larger when the two surfaces that form them are pressed closer together , and diminish when the pressure is gradually removed .
The smallest ring of a set may be increased by this means to double and treble its former diameter ; but as the common or natural pressure of glasses laid upon any flat or curved surface is occasioned by their weight , the variations of pressure will not be very considerable when they are left to assume their own distance or contact .
To produce that situation , however , which is generally called contact , it will always be necessary to give a little motion backwards and forwards to the incumbent lens or glass , accompanied with some moderate pressure , after which it may be left to settle properly by its own weight .
IX .
Of measuring Rings .
It may be supposed from what has been said concerning the kind of contact , which is required for glasses to produce rings , that an attempt to take absolute measures must be liable to great inaccuracy .
''his was fully proved to me when I wanted to ascertain , in the year i792 , whether a lens laid upon a metailine surface would give rings of an equal diameter with those it gave when placed on glass .
The measures differed so much that I was at first deceived ; but on proper consideration it appeared that the HUYGENIAN object glass , of 122 feet focus , which I used for the experiment , could not so easily be brought to the same contact on metal as on glass ; nor can we ever be well assured that an equal distance between the two surfaces in both cases has been actually obtained .
The colour of the central point , as will be shown hereafter , may serve as a direction ; but even that cannot be easily made equal in both cases .
By taking a sufficient number of measures of any given ring of a set , when a glass of a sufficient focal length is used , we may however determine its diameter to about the g2th or 3oth part of its dimension .
Relative measures , for ascertaining the proportion of the different rings in the same set to each other , may be more accurately taken , for in that case the contact with them all will remain the same , if we do not disturb the glasses during the time of measuring .
X. Of the Nutmber of Rings .
When there is a sufficient illumination , many concentric rings in every set will be perceived ; .
in the primary set we see generally 8 , 9 , or o , very conveniently .
By holding the eye in the most favourable situation I have often counted near 20 , and the number of them is generally lost when they grow too narrow and minute to be perceived , so that we can never be said fairly to have counted them to their full extent .
In the second set I have seen as many as in the first , and they are full as bright .
The third set , when it is seen by a metalline mirror under two slips , will be brighter than the second , and almost as bright as the first : I have easily counted 7 , 8 , and 9 rings .
XI .
Of the Effect of Pressure on the Colour of the Rings .
When a double convex object glass of 14 or 15 feet focus is laid on a plain slip of glass , the first colours that make their faintest appearance will be red surrounded by green ; the smallest pressure will turn the center into green surrounded by red : an additional pressure will give a red center again , and so on till there have been so many successive alterations as to give us six or seven times a red center , after which the greatest pressure will only produce a very large black one surrounded by white .
When the rings are seen by transmission , the colours are in the same manner subject to a gradual alternate change occasioned by pressure ; but when that is carried to its full extent , the center of the rings will be a large white spot surrounded by black .
The succession and addition of the other prismatic colours after the first or second change , in both cases is extremely beautiful ; but as the experiment may be so easily made , a 398 description , which certainly would fall short of an actual view of these phenomena , will not be necessary .
When the rings are produced by curves of a very short radius , and the incumbent lens in full contact with the slip of glass , they will be alternately black and white ; but by lessening the contact , I have seen , even with a double convex lens of no more than two-tenths of an inch focus , the center of the rings white , red , green , yellow , and black , at pleasure .
In this case I used an eye-glass of one inch focus ; but as it requires mucbh practice to manage such small glasses , the experiment may be more conveniently made by placing a double convex lens of 2-inch focus on a plain slip of glass , and viewing the rings by an eye glass of 2inches ; then having first brought the lens into full contact , the rings will be only black and white , but by gently lifting up or tilting the lens , the center of the rings will assume various colours at pleasure .
XII .
Of diluting and concentrating the Colours .
Lifting up or tilting a lens being subject to great uncertainty , a surer way of acting upon the colours of the rings is by dilution and concentration .
After having seen that very small lenses give only black and white when in full contact , we may gradually take others of a longer focus .
With a double convex lens of four inches the outward rings will bein to assume a faint red colour .
With 5 , 6 , and 7 , this appearance will increase ; and proceeding with lenses of a larger focus , when we come to about i6 , -8 , or 2o inches , green rings will gradually make theirappearance .
This and other colours come on much sooner if the center Dd d of the lens is not kept in a black contact , which , in these experiments must be attended to .
A lens of 26 inches not only shows black , white , red , and green rings , but the central black begins already to be diluted so as to incline to violet , indigo , or blue .
With one of 34 , the white about the dark center begins to be diluted , and shows a kind of gray inclining to yellow .
With 42 and 48 , yellow rings begin to become visible .
With 55 and rg , blue rings show themselves very plainly .
With a focal length of 9 and 11 feet , orange many be distinguished from the yellow , and indigo from the blue .
With 14 feet , some violetsbecomes visible .
When the 122 feet IUYGENIAN glass is laid on a plain slip , and well settled upon it , the central colour is then sufficiently diluted to show that the dark spot , which in small lenses , when concentrated , had the appearance of black , is now drawn out into violet , indigo , and blue , with little admixture of green ; and that the white ring , which used to be about the central spot , is turned partly green with a surrounding yellow , orange , and red-coloured space or ring ; by which means we seem to have a fair analysis of our former compound black and white center .
One of my slips of glass , which is probably a little concave , gave the rings still larger when the 122 feet glass was firmly pressed againstit .
I used a little side motion at the same time , and brought the glasses into such contact that they adhered sufficiently to be lifted up together .
With this adhesion I perceived a colour surrounding a dark center which I have never seen in any prismatic spectrum .
It is a kind of light brown , resembling the colour of a certain sort of Spanish snuff .
The 7o-feet object glass showed the same colour also very clearly .
XIII .
Of the Order of the Colours .
The arrangement of the colours in each compound ring or alternation , seen by reflection is , that the most refrangible rays are nearest the center ; and the same order takes place when seen by transmission .
We have already shown that when a full dilution of the colours was obtained their arrangement was violet , indigo , blue , green , yellow , orange , and red ; and the same order will hold good when the colours are gradually concentrated again ; for though some of them should vanish before others , those that remain will always be found to agree with the same arrangement .
If the rings should chance to be red and green alternately , a doubt might arise which of them is nearest the center ; but by the method of dilution , a little pressure , or some small increase of the focal length of the incumbent lens , there will be introduced an orange tint between them , which will immediately ascertain the order of the colours .
In the second set of rings the same order is still preserved as in the first ; and the same arrangement takes place in the third set as well as in the fourth .
In all of them the most refrangible rays produce the smallest rings .
XIV .
Of the alternate Colour and Size of the Rings belonging to the primary and dependent Sets .
When two sets of rings are seen at once , and the colour of the center of the primary set is black , that of the secondary will be white ; if the former is white , the latter will be black The same alternation will take place if the colour of the center cf the primary set should be red or orange ; for then the 201 center of the secondary one will be green ; or if the former happens to be : green , the latter will be red or orange .
At the sametim there will be a similar alternation in the size of rings ; for the white rings in one set will be of the diameter of the black in the other ; or the orange rings of the former will be of equal magnitude with the green of the latter .
When three sets of rings are to be seen , the second and third sets will be alike in colour and size , but alternate in both particulars with the primary set .
The same tling will happen when four sets are visible ; for all the sets that are formed from the primary one will resemble each other , but will be alternate in the colour and dimensions of their rings with those of the primary set .
XV .
Of the sudden Change of the Size and Colour of the Rings in different Sets .
When two sets of rings are viewed which are dependent upon each other , the colour of their centers and of all the rings in each set , may be made to undergo a sudden change by the , approach of the shadow of the point of a penknife or other opaque slender body .
To view this phenomenon properly , let a 6-inch double convex lens be laid upon a piece of looking-glass , and when the contact between them has been made to give the primary set with a black center , that of the secondary will be white .
To keep the lens in this contact , a pretty heavy plate of lead with a circular hole in it of nearly the diameter of the lens should be laid upon it .
The margin of the hole must be tapering , that no obstruction may be made to either the incident or reflected light .
When this is properly arranged , bring the third shadow of the penknife upon the primary set , which is that towards the light .
The real colours of this and the secondary set will then be seen to the greatest advantage .
When the third shadow is advanced till it covers the second set , the second shadow will at the same time fall upon the first set , and the colour of the centers , and of all the rings in both sets , will undergo a sudden transformation from black to white and white to black .
The alternation of the colour is accompanied with a change of size , for as the white rings before the change were of a different diameter from the black ones , these latter , having now assumed a black colour , will be of a different size from the former black ones .
When the weight is taken from the lens the black contact will be changed into some other .
In the present experiment it happened that the primary set got an orange coloured center and the secondary a green one .
The same way of proceeding with the direction of the shadow being then pursued , the orange center was instantly changed to a green one , while at the same moment the green center was turned into orange .
With a. different contact I have had the primary set with a blue center and the secondary with a deep yellow one ; and by bringing the second and third shadows alternately over the primary set , the blue center was changed to a yellow , and the yellow centerto a blue one ; and all the rings of both sets had their share in the transformation of colour and size .
If there are three sets of rings , and the primary set has a black center , the other two will have a white one ; and when the lowest shadow is made to fall on the third set , the central colour of all the three sets will be suddenly changed , the first from black to white , the other two from white to black .
A full explanation of these changes , which at first sight have the appearance of a magical delusion , will be found in a future article .
XVI .
Of the Course of the Rays by which different Sets of Rizgs are seen .
In order to determine the course of the rays , which give the rings both by reflection and by transmission , we should begin from the place whence the light proceeds that forms them .
In figure i , we have a plano-convex lens laid upon three slips of glass , under which a metalline mirror is placed .
An incident ray , 1 , 2 , is transmitted through the first and second surface of the lens , and comes to the point of contact at 3 .
Here the rings are formed , and are both reflected and transmitted : they are reflected from the upper surface of the first slip , and pass from 3 to the eye at 4 : they are also transmitted through the first slip of glass from 3 to 5 ; and at 5 they are again both reflected and transmitted ; reflected from 5 to 6 , and transmitted from 5 to 7 ; from 7 they are reflected to 8 , and transmitted to 9 ; and lastly they are reflected from 9 to 10 .
And thus four complete sets of rings will be seen at 4 , 6 , 8 , and lo .
The most convenient way of viewing the same rings by transmission , is that which has been mentioned in the second article of this paper , when light is conveyed upwards by reflection .
Tn figure 2 , consisting of the same arrangement of glasses as before , the light by which the rings are to be seen comes either from 1 , 2 , or 3 , or from all these places together , and being reflected at 4 , 5 , and 6 , rises up by transmission to the point of contact at 7 , where the rings are formed .
Here they are both transmitted up to the eye at 8 , and reflected down to 9 ; from 9 they are reflected up to 1o and transmitted down to 1i ; from 1 they are reflected to 12 and transmitted to 13 ; and lastly , from 13 they are reflected to 14 ; so , that again four sets of rings will be seen at 8 , 1o , 12 , and 14 .
This being a theoretical way of conceiving how the rays of light may produce the effects , it will be required to show by experiments that this is the actual progress of the rays , and that all the sets of rings we perceive are really reflected or transmitted in the manner that has been pointed out ; but as we have so many reflections and transmissionsl before us , it will be necessary to confine these expressions to one particular signification when they are applied to a set of rings .
When the center of the rings is seen at the point of contact , it is a primary set ; and I call it reflected , when the rays which come to that point and form the rings undergo an immediate reflection .
But I call it transmitted , when the rays after having formed the rings about the point of contact are immediately transmitted .
Thus in figure 3 and 4 the rays ab c , d of , give reflected sets of rings ; and the rays gh i , kI m , in figure 5 and 6 , give transmitted sets .
In this denomination , no account is taken of the course of the rays before they come to a , d , g , k ; nor of what becomes of them after their arrival at c , f , i , m : they may either come to those places or go from them by one or more transmissions or reflections , as the case may require ; but our denomination will relate only to their course immediately after the formation of the rings between the glasses .
The secondary and other dependent sets will also be called reflected or transmitted by the same definition : and as a set of these rings formed originally by reflection may come to the eye by one or more subsequent transmissions ; or being .
formed by transmission , may at last be seen by a reflection from some interposed surface , these subsequent transmissions or reflections are to be regarded only as convenient ways to get a good sight of them .
With this definition in view , and with the assistance of a principle which has already been proved by experiments , we may explain some very intricate phenomena ; and the satisfactory manner of accounting for them will establish the truth of the theory relating to the course of rays that has been described .
The principle to which I refer is , that when the pressure is such as to give a black center to a set of rings seen by reflection , the center of the same set , with the same pressure of the glasses seen by transmission will be white.* I have only mentioned black and white , but any other alternate colours , which the rings or centers of the two sets may assume , are included in the same predicament .
XVII .
Why two connected Sets of Rings are of alternate Colours .
It has already been shown , when two sets of rings are seen , that their colours are alternate , and that the approach of the shadow of a penknife will cause a sudden change of them to take place .
I shall now prove that this is a very obvious consequence of the course of rays that has been proposed .
Let figure 7 and 8 represent the arrangement given in a preceding article , where a 16-inch lens was laid upon a looking-glass , and gave two sets of rings with centers of different colours : but let figure 7 , give them by one set of rays , and figure 8 by another .
Then , if the incident rays come in the direction which is represented in figure 7 , it is evident that we see the primary set with its center at 2 by reflection , and the secondary one at 4 by transmission .
Hence it follows , in consequence of the admitted principle , that if the contact is such as to give us the primary set with a black center , the secondary set must have a white one ; and thus the reason of the alternation is explained .
But if the rays come as represented in figure 8 , we see the primary set by transmission , and the secondary one by reflection ; therefore , with an equal pressure of the glasses , the primary center must now be white , and the secondary one black .
Without being well acquainted with this double course of rays , we shall be liable to frequent mistakes in our estimation of the colour of the centers of two sets of rings ; for by a certain position of the light , or of the eye , we may see one set by one light and the other set by the other .
XVIII .
Of the Cause of the sudden Change of the Colou1rs .
Having thus accounted for the alternation of the central colours , we may easily conceive that the interposition of the penknife must have an instantaneous effect upon them .
When it stops the rays of figure 7 , which will happen when its second shadow falls upon the primary set , the rings will then be seen by the rays i , 2 , 3 , 4 , and i , , , 5 , 6 , of figure 8 .
When it stops the rays of figure 8 , which must happen when the third shadow falls upon the primary set , we then see both sets by the rays i , 2 , 3 , and , , , 4 , , of figure 7 .
When the penknife is quite removed both sets of rays will come to the point of contact , and in some respects interfere with each Ee2 0o7 other ; but the strongest of the two , which is generally the direct light of figure 7 , will prevail .
This affords a complete explanation of all the observed phenomena : by the the rays of figure 7 the centers will be black and white ; by those of figure 8 they will be white and black ; and by both we shall not see the first set so well as when the third shadow being upon it , has taken away the rays of figure 8 : indeed we can hardly see the secondary set at all , till the shadow of the penknife has covered either the rays-of figure 7 or of figure 8 .
As soon as we are a little practised in the management of the rays , by knowing their course , we may change the colour so gradually as to have half the center white while the other half shall still remain black ; and the same may be done with green and orange , or blue and yellow centers .
The rings of both sets will also participate in the gradual change ; and thus what has been said of the course of rays in the i6th article will again be confirmed .
XIX .
Of the Place where the different Sets of Rings are to be seen .
By an application of the same course of the rays , we may now also determine the situation of the place where the different sets of rings are seen : for according to what has been said in the foregoing article , the situation of the primary set should be between the lens and the surface of the lookingglass : and the place of the secondary one at the metalline coating of the lowest surface .
To try whether this be actually as represented , let us substitute a metalline mirror with a slip of glass laid upon it in the room of the piece of looking-glass ; and let there be interposed a short bit .
of wood , one-tenth of an inch thick , between the slip of glass and the mirror , so as to keep up that end of the slip which is towards the light .
This arrangement is represented in figure 9 , where both sets of rays are delineated .
Then if we interpose a narrow tapering strip of card , discoloured with japan ink , between the slip of glass and the mirror , so as to cover it at 7 , we do not only still perceive the primary set , but see it better than before : which proves that being situated above the slip of glass the card below cannot cover it .
If on the contrary we insert the strip of card far enough , that it may at the same time cover the mirror both at 4 and at 7 , we shall lose the secondary set , which proves that its situation was on the face of the mirror .
When several sets of rings are to be perceived by the same eye-glass , and they are placed at different distances , a particular adjustment of it will be required for each set , in order to see it well defined .
This will be very sensible when we attempt to see three or four sets , each of them situated lower than the preceding ; for without a previous adjustment to the distance of the set intended to be viewed we shall be seldom successful ; and this is therefore a corroborating proof of the situation that has been assigned to different sets of rings .
XX .
Of the Connection between different Sets of Rings .
It will now be easy to explain in what manner different sets of rings are connected , and why they have been called primary and dependent .
When the incident rays come to the point of contact and form a set of rings , I call it the primary one : when this is formed some of the same rays are continued by transmission or reflection , but modified so as to convey animage of the primary set with opposite colours forwardi So9 through any number of successive transmissions or reflections ; whenever this image comes to the eye , a set of rings will again be seen , which is a dependent one .
Many proofs of the dependency of second , third , and fourth sets of rings upon their primary one may be given ; I shall only mention a few .
When two sets of rings are seen by a lens placed upon a , looking-glass , the center of the secondary set will always remain in the same plane with the incident and reflected rays passing through the center of the primary one .
If the point of contact , by tilting is changed , the secondary set will follow the motion of the primary set ; and if the looking-glass is turned about , the secondary will be made to describe a circle upon that part of the looking-glass which surrounds the primary one as a center .
If there is a defect in the center or in the rings of the primary set there will be exactly the same defect in the secondary one ; and if the rays that cause the primary set are eclipsed , both sets will be lost together .
If the colour of the primary one is changed , that of the secondary will also undergo its alternate change , and the same thing will hold good of all the dependent rings when three or four sets of them are seen that have the same primary one .
The dependency of all the sets on their primary one may also be perceived when we change the obliquity of the incident light ; for the centers of the rings will recede from one another when that is increased and draw together when we lessen it , which may go so far that by an incidence nearly perpendicular we shall bring the dependent sets of rings almost under the primary one .
XXI .
To accountfor the Appearance of several Sets of Rings with the same coloured Centers .
It has often happened that the colour of the centers of different sets was not what the theory of the alternation of the central colours would have induced me to expect : I have seen two , three , and even four sets of rings , all of which had a white center .
We are however now sufficiently prepared to account for every appearance relating to the colour of rings and their centers .
Let an arrangement of glasses be as in figure 9 .
When this is laid down so as to receive an illumination of day light , which should not be strong , nor should it be very oblique , the reflection from the mirror will then exceed that from the surface of glass ; therefore the primary set will be seen by the rays 6 , 7 , coming to the mirror at 7 , and going through the point of contact in the direction 7 , 2 , 8 , which proves it to be a set that is seen by transmission , and it will therefore have a white center .
The rays i , a , 4 , passing through the point of contact , will also form a transmitted set with a white center , which will be seen when the reflection from 4 to 5 conveys it to the eye .
But these two sets have no connection with each other ; and as primary sets are independent of all other sets , I have only to prove that this secondary set belongs not to the primary one which is seen , but to another invisible one .
This may be done as follows .
Introduce the black strip of card that has been mentioned before , till it covers the mirror at 7 ; this will take away the strong reflection of light which overpowers the feeble illumination of the rays i , 2 , g ; and the real hitherto eclipsed primary set belonging to the secondary one with a white center , will instantly make its appearance with a black one .
We may alternately withdraw and introduce again the strip of card , and the center of the primary set will be as often changed from one colour to its opposite ; but the secondary set , not being dependent on the rays 6 , 7 , will not be in the least affected by the change .
If the contact should have been such as to give both sets with orange centers , the introduction of the strip of card will prove that the set which is primary to the other has really a green center .
Another way of destroying the illusion is to expose the same arrangement to a brighter light , and at the same time to increase the obliquity of the angle of incidence ; this will give a sufficient reflection from the surface of the glass to be no longer subject to the former deceptive appearance ; for now the center of the primary set will be black , as it ought to be .
XXII .
Of the refecting Surfaces .
The rays of light that form rings between glasses , must undergo certain modifications by some of the surfaces through which they pass , or from which they are reflected ; and to , find out the nature of these modifications , it will be necessary to examine which surfaces are efficient .
As we see rings by reflection and also by transmission , I shall begin with the most simple , and show experimentally the situation of the surface that reflects , not only the primary , but also the secondary sets of rings .
Upon a slip of glass , the lowest surface of which was deprived of its polish by emery , I laid an object-glass of 21 feet focal length , and saw a very complete set of rings .
I then put the same glass upon a plain metalline mirror , and saw likewise a set of them .
They were consequently not reflected , from the lowest : surface of the subjacent gass or metal .
Itf will easily be understood , that were we to lay the same object glass upon a slip ofglass emeried on both sides , or upon an unpolished metal , no rings would be seen .
It is therefore neither from the first surface of the incumbent object-glass , nor from its lowest , j that they are reflected ; for if they could be foWed .
t withQut the modification of reflection from the upper surface of a subjacent glass or metal , they would still be seen:when , lai on rough surfaces ; and consequently , the efficient reflecting .
surface , by which we see primary sets-of rings , is that-:which is immediately under the point of contact .
To see a.seondary set of rings by reflection , is only an inversion of the method of seeing a primary-one .
For instance , when a lens is laid upon a looking-glass , the course of the rays represented in figure 8 , willl show that the rays i , s , 3 , 5 , 6 , by which a secondary set is seen , are reflected about the point of contact at 3 , and that the lowest surface of the incumbent lens is therefore the efficient reflecting one ; and thus it is proved , that in either case of seeing reflected rings , one of the surfaces that are joined at the point of contact contributes to their formation by a certain modification of reflection .
XXIII .
Of the transmitting Surfaces It would seem to be almost self-evident , that when a set of rings is seen by transmission , the light which occasions them must come through all the four surfaces of the two glasses which are employed ; and yet it may be shown that this is not necessary .
We may , for instance , convey light into the body of the subjacent glass through its first surface , and let it be reflected within the glass at a proper angle , ' so that it may come up .
through the point of contact , and reach the eye , having been transmitted through no more than three surfaces .
To prove this I used a small box , blackened on the inside , and covered with a piece of black pasteboard , which had a hole .
of about 'halfan inch in the middle .
Over this hole I laid a slip of glass with a 56-inch lens upon it ; and viewed a setof rings given by this arrangement very obliquely , that the reflection from the slip of glass might be copious .
Then guarding the point of contact between the lens and the slip of glass from the direct incident light , I saw the rings , after the colour l of their center had been changed , by means of an internal reflecI tion from the lowest surface of the slip of glass ; by which it rose up through the point of contact , and formed the primary : set of rings , without having been transmitted through the lowest surface of the subjacent glass .
The number of transmitted surfaces is therefore by this experiment reduced to .
three ; but I shall soon have an opportunity of showing that so many are not required for the purpose of forming the rings , XXIV .
Of the Action of the first Surface .
We have already shown that two sets of rings may be seen , by using a lens laid upon a slip of glass ; in which case , therefore , whether we see the rings by reflection or by transmission , no more than four surfaces can be essential to their formation .
In the following experiments for investigating the action of these surfaces I have preferred metalline reflection , when glass , was not required , that the apparatus might be more simple .
Upon a plain metalline mirror I laid a double convex lens , having a strong emery scratch on its uper surface .
When I saw the rings through the scratch , they appeared to have a black mark across them .
By tilting the lens , I brought the center of the rings upon the projection of the scratch , so that the incident light was obliged to come through the scratch to the rings , and the black mark was again visible upon them , but much stronger than before .
In neither of the situations were the rings disfigured .
The stronger mark was owing to the interception of the incident light , but when the rings had received their full illumination the mark was weaker , because in the latter case the rings themselves were probably complete , but in the formerdeficient .
I placed a lens that had a very scabrous polish on one side , but was highly polished on the other , upon a metalline mirror .
The defective side being uppermost , I did not find that its scabrousness had any distorting effect upon the rings , I splintered off the edge of a plain slip of glass ; it broke as it usually does with a waving striated , curved slope coming to an edge .
The splintered part was placed upon a convex metalline.mirror of 2-inch focus , as in figure o. The irregularity of the striated surface through which the incidentray i , 2 , was made to pass had very little effect upon the form of the rings ; the striae appearing only like fine dark lines , with hardly any visible distortion ; but when , by tilting the returning ray , 2 , 3 , was also brought over the striated surface , the rings were much disfigured .
This experiment therefore seems to prove that a very regular refraction of light by the first surface is not necessary ; for though the rings were much disfigured when the returning light came through the Ffa splintered-defect , this isno more than whatmust happen to the appearance of every object which is seen through a distorting medium .
I laid the convex side of a plano-convex lens of 2,8-inch focus with a diameter of 1,5 upon a plain mirror , and when I saw a set of rings I tilted the lens so as to bring the point of contact to the very edge of the lens , both towards the light and from the light , which , on account of the large diameter of the lens , gave a great variety in the angle of incidence to the rays which formed the rings ; but no difference in their size or appearance could be perceived .
This seems to prove that no modification of the first surface in which the angle of incidence is concerned , such as refraction and dispersion , has any share in the production of the rings , andthat it acts merely Fby the intromission of light ; and though even this is not Without being influenced by a change of the angle , it can only produce a small difference in the brightness of the rings .
A more forcible argument , that leads to the same conclusion , is as follows .
Laying down three 54-inch double convex lenses , I placed upon the first the plain side of a plano-convex lens of inch focus ; upon the second , a plain slip of glass ; and upon the third , the plain side of a plano-concave lens also s inch:focus .
I had before tried the same experiment with glasses of a greater focal length , but selected these to 'strengthen the argument .
Then , as nothing could be more different than the refraction of the upper surfaces of these glasses , I examined the three sets of rings that were formed by these three combinations , and found them so perfectly alike 'that it was not possible to perceive any difference in their size and colour .
This shows that the first surface of the incumbent:glasses merely acts as an inlet to the rays that afterwards form the tings .
To confirm the idea that the mere admission of light would be sufficient , I used a slip of glass polished on one side but roughened with : emery on the there ; this ' being laid upon a i-feet object-glass , I saw a set of rings through the rough surface ; and though they appeared hazy , they were otherwise complete in figure and colour .
The slip of glass when laid in the sa-e manner upon , the letters of a book made them appear equally hazy ; so that the rings were probably as sharply formed as the letters .
Having now already great reason to believe that no modification , that can be given by the first surface to the incident rays of light , is -essential to the formation of the rings , I imade the following decisive experiment .
Upon a ssmall piece of looking-glass I laid half a double convex lens of i6-inches focus , with the fracture exposed to thq light , as represented in figure 11 .
Under the edge of the perfect pafrt of the lens was put a small lump of wax , soft enough to allow a gentle presure to bring the opoint of contact towards the fractured edge , and to keep it there .
In this arrangement it has already been shown that there are two different ways of seeing two sets of rings : by the rays 1 , 2 , 3 , we see a primary set ; and by 1 , 2 , , 5 , the secondary set belonging to it : by the rays 6 , 7 , 2 , 3 we see a diflfrent primary set ; and -by 6,7 , 2 , 4 , 5 , we see its secondary one .
That this theory is well founded has already been proved ; but if we should have a doubt reiaining , the interposition of any small opaque object upon the looking-glass near the fracture will instantly stop the latter two sets of rings , and .
show 217 the alternate colours of the two sets that will then be seen by the rays i , 2 , 3 , and i , 2 , 4 , 5 .
Remove in the next place the stop from the'looking-glass , and bring the second shadow of the penknife over the primary set , and there will then only remain the two sets of rings formed by incident rays which come from 6 , and which have never passed through the upper surface of the lens .
Now , as both sets of rings in this case are completely formed by rays transmitted upwards from the:coated part of the looking-glass without passing through the first surface of the incumbent lens , the proof that the modifying power of that surface is not required to the formation of the rings is established .
It can hardly be supposed that the first surface of the lens should have any concern in the formation of the rings when the rays are reflected from the looking-glass towards the eye ; but the same experiment , that has proved that this surface was not required to be used with incident rays , will show that we may do without it when they are on their return .
We need only invert the fractured lens , as in figure 1i , when either the rays i , 2 , 4 , $ , or 6 , 7 , , 4 , 5 , will convey the image of the rings after their formation to the eye without passing through any part of the lens .
XXV .
Of the Action of the second Surface .
As rings are formed when two glasses are laid upon each other , it is but reasonable to expect that the two surfaces at least which are placed together should have an immediate effect upon them , and so much the more , as it has been ascertained that the first surface assists only by permitting light to pass into the body of the glass .
Some of the experiments that have been instituted for examining the action of the first surface.will equally serve for investigating that of the second .
The lens already : used with a Ostrong emery scratch being again placed on the mirror , but with the injured side downwards , I found that the rings , when brought under the scratch , were not distorted ; they had only a black mark of the same shape as the scratch across them .
The lens with a scabrous side was also placed again upon the mirror , but with the highly polished side upwards .
In this position the scabrousness of the lowest surface occasioned great irregularity among the rings , which wereindented and broken wherever the little polished holes that make up a'scabrous surface came near them ; and if by gently lifting the lens a strong contact was prevented , the colours of the rings were likewise extremely disfigured and changed .
As we have now seen that a polished defect upon the second surface will affect the figure of the rings that are under them , it will remain to be determined whether such defects do really distort them by some modification they give to the rays of light in their passage through them , or whether they only represent the rings as deformed , : because we see them through a distorted medium .
For although the scab- .
rousness did not sensibly affect the figure of the rings when it was on the first surface , we may suppose the little polished holes to have a much stronger effect in distorting the appearance of the rings when they are close to them .
The following experiment will entirely clear up this point .
Over the middle of a 22-inch double convex lens I drew a strong line with a diamond , and gave it a polish afterwards : that it might occasion an irregular refraction .
This being 9ig prepared , I laid a. slip of ; glass upon a plain metaline mirror , and.-placed the lens , wit thepolished line downwards upon the slip of glass .
This arrangement has beenr shown to give two sets of rings .
When I examinedthe pri-mary sety , a strong .
disfiguring of the rings was visible ; they had thele appearance of having been forced asunder , or swelled out , so as to be much broader one way than another .
The rings of the secondary set had .
exactly the same defects , which being strongly marked , could not , be mnistaken .
T hecenters of the two sets , as usual , were of opposite colours , the first being black , the ' second , white4 ; and all those defects that were of one colour in the first set , were of the opposite colour in the second .
When , by , the usual method , Ichanged the colours of the centers of the rings , making that of the primary whiteand of the secondary black , the defects in both set were still exactly alike , and.as before- ; exceptthat they had also undergone the like transformation of colour , each having assumed its opposite .
It remains now only to show that this experiment is decisive ; for by the established ' course of the rays we saw the secondary set .
of rings when it had a white center by the transmitted rays marked i. , , , in figure 13 ; and when it had a black one , by the reflected rays 6 , 7 , 2 , 4 , 5 , of the same figure ; but in neither of these two cases did the rays come through the defective part of the lens in their return to the eye .
This experiment proves .
more than we might at first be ' aware of ; for it -does not only establish that the second surface , when properly combined with a third surcace , has a modifying power whereby it , can interrupt the , reularity of the rings , but also one wherebyit contributes to their formation ; for , if it ni give an irregular figure to them by transmitting its irregularly modified rays , it follows , that when these rays are regularly iidified it will be the cause of the regular figure of the ring ? .
Nay , it proves more ; for if it modifies the figure of the rings by transmission , it modifies them no less by reflection ; which may be seen by following the course of the rays 6,7 , 2 , 2 , 5 ; for as they do not pass through the defective place of the lens , they can only receive their modfication from it by reflection .
This opens a field of view to us that leads to the cause of all these intricate phenomena , of which in a second part of this paper I shall avail myself .
XXVI .
Of the Action of the third Surface .
When a double convex lens is laid upon a plain metalline mirror that happens to have an emery scratch in its surface , we see it as a black line under the rings that are formed over them .
This shows , that when a defect from want of polish has not a power to reflect light in an irregular manner , it cannot distort the rings that are formed upon it .
When I laid a good 2l -feet object glass upon a plain slip that had some defects in its surface , the rings , in every part of the object glass that was brought over them , were always disfigured ; which proves that a reflection from a defective third surface has a power of forming distorted rings , and that consequently a reflection from one that is perfect must have a power of forming rings without distortion , when it is combined with a proper second surface .
When the defective slip of glass , with a perfect lens upon it , was placed upon a metalline mirror , I saw the secondary set affected by distortions of the rings that were perfectly like those in the primary set ; which proves that a polished defect in the third surface will give modifications to the rays that form the rings by transmission as well as by reflection .
XXVII .
The Colour of the reflecting and transmitting Surfaces is of no consequence .
I laid seven 54-inch double convex lenses upon seven coloured pieces of plain glass .
The colours of the glasses were those which are given by a prism , namely , violet , indigo , blue , green , yellow , orange , and red .
The rings reflected from each of these glasses were in every respect alike ; at least so far that I could have a black , a white , a red , an orange , a yellow , a green , or a blue center with every one of them , according to the degree of pressure I used .
The lenses being very transparent , it may be admitted that the colours of the glasses seen through them would in some degree mix with the colours of the rings ; but the action of the cause that gives the rings was not in the least affected by that circumstance .
I saw the rings also by direct transmission through all the coloured glasess except a dark red , which stopped so much light that I could not perceive them .
The colour of the glasses , in this way , coming directly to the eye , gave a strong tinge to the centers of the rings , so that instead of a pure white I had a bluish-white , a greenish white , and so of the rest ; but the form of the rings was no less perfect on that account .
XXVIII .
Of the Action of the fourth Surface .
We have already seen that a set of rings may be completely formed by reflection from a third surface , without the introduction of a fourth ; this , at all events , must prove that such a surface is not essential to the formation of rings , but as not only in direct transmission , but also when two sets of rings are to be seen , one of which may be formed by transmission this fourth surface must be introduced ; I have ascertained by the following experiments how far the same has any share in the formation of rings .
In direct transmission , where the light comes from below , the fourth surface will take the part-which is acted by the first , when rings are seen reflected from a metalline mirror .
Its office therefore will be merely to afford an entrance to the rays of light into the substance of the subjacent glass ; but when that light is admitted through the first , second , and third surfaces , the fourth takes the office of a reflector , and sends it back towards the point of contact .
It will not be required to examine this reflection , since the light thus turned back again is , with respect to the point of contact , in the same situation in which it was after its entrance through the first surface when it proceeded to the same poiit ; but when two sets of rings are to be formed by rays , either coming through this point directly towards the fourth surface , or by reflection from the same point towards the place where the secondary rings are to be seen , it will then be necessary to examine whether this surface has any share in their formation , or whether these rings , being already completely formed , are only reflected by it to the eye .
With a view to this , I selected a certain polished defect in the surface of a piece of coachglass , and when a 26-inch lens was laid upon it , the rings of the set it produced were much distorted .
The lens was then put upon a perfect slip of glass , and both together were laid G g upon the defective place of the coach-glass .
The rings of the secondary set reflected by it were nevertheless as perfect as those of the primary set .
It occurred to me that these rings might possibly be reflected from the lowest surface of the perfect slip of glass , especially as by lifting it up from the coach-glass I still continued to see both sets .
To clear up this point , therefore , I took away the slip , and turning the defective place of the coach-glass downwards , produced a set of perfect rings between the lens and the upper surace of the coach-glass , and brought it into such a situation that a secondary set must be reflected from the defective place of the lowest surface .
This being obtained , the rings of this set were again as well formed and as free from distortions as those of the primary set .
Upon a plain metalline mirror I laid down two lenses , one a plano-convex , the other a piano concave , both of 2,9 inches focus , and having the plain side upwards .
When two s -inch double convex glasses were laid upon them , the secondary sets of both the combinations were of equal size , and perfectly like their primary sets ; which proves that the refraction of the fourth surface is either not at all concerned , or at least has so little an effect in altering the size of the ritgs that it cannot be perceived .
The result of the foregoing experiments , relating to the action of the several surfaces , is , I. That only two of them are essential to he fortafion of concentric rings .
H. That these two must be of a certan regular construc tion , and so as to form a central contact .
HI .
That therays from one side or the other , must eithe Oit pass through the point of contact , or through one of the surfaces about the same point to the other to e reflected from it .
IV .
And that in all these cases a set of rings will be formed , .
having their common center in the place where the two surfaces touch each other .
XXIX .
Considerations that relate to the Cause of the formation of concentric Rings .
It is perfectly evident that the phenomena of colcentric rings must have an adequate cause , either in the verylnature or motion of the rays of light , or in the modifications that are given to them by the two essential surfaces that act upon them at the time of the formation of the rings .
This seems to reduce the cause we are looking for to an alternative that may be determined ; for if it can be shown that a disposition of the rays of light to be alternately reflected and transmitted cannot account for the phenomenon which this hypothesis is to explain , a proposition of accounting for them by modifications that may be proved , even on the very principles of Sir I. NEWTON to have an existence , will find a ready admittance .
I propose , therefore , now to give some arguments , which will remove an obstacle to the investigation of the real cause of the formation of the concentric rings ; forafter the very plausible supposition of the alternate fits , which agrees so wonderfully well with a number of facts that have been related , it will hardly be attempted ' if these should be set aside , to ascribe some other inherent property to the rays of light , whereby we might account for them ; and thus we shall be at liberty to turn our thoughts to a cause that may be found in the modifications arising from the action of the surfaces which have been proved to be the only essential ones in the formation of rings .
XXX .
Concentric Rings cannot be formed by an alternate Reflection and Transmission of the Rays of Light .
One of the most simple methods of obtaining a set of concentric rings is to lay a convex lens on a plain metalline mirror ; but in this case we can have no transmission of rays , and therefore we cannot have an alternate reflection and transmission of them .
If to get over this objection it should be said that , instead of transmission , we ought to substitute absorption ; since those rays which in glass would have been transmitted will be absorbed by the metal , we may admit the elusion ; it ought however to have been made a part of the hypothesis .
XXXI .
Alternate Fits of easy Reflection and easy Transmission , zf they exist , do not exert themselves according to various Thicknesses of thin Plates of Air .
In the following experiment , I placed a plain well polished piece of glass 5,6 inches long , and , ,3 thick , upon a plain metalline mirror of the same length with the glass ; and in order to keep the mirror and glass at a distance from each other , I laid between them , at one end , a narrow strip of such paper as we commonly put between prints .
The thickness of that which I used was the 64oth part of an inch ; for 128 folds of them laid together would hardly make up two-tenths .
Upon the glass I put a 39-inch double convex lens ; and having exposed this combination to a proper light , I saw two conplete sets of coloured rings .
In this arrangement , the rays which convey the secondaryset of rings to the eye must pass througha thin wedge of air , and if these rays are endowed with permanent fits of easy reflection , and easy transmission , or absorption , their exertion , according : to Sir I. NEWTON , should be repeated at every different thickness of the plate of air , which amounts to the 8 --part of an inch , of which he says " Hec est orassitudo aeris in primo annulo obscuro radiis ad perpendiculum incidentibus exibito , qua part is annulus obscurissimus est .
" The length of the thin wedge of air , reckoned from the line of contact , to the beginning of the interposed strip of paper , is 5,2 inches , from which we calculate that it will have the above mentioned thickness at of an inch from the contact ; and therefore at s , 79 11 S4 , &amp;c. we shall have the thickness of air between the mirror and glass , equal to - , i7 83000 ' 7TIT000s &amp;c. of which the same author says : that they give " crassitudines Aeris in omnibus Annulis lucidis , qua part illi lucidissimi sunt .
" Hence it follows that , according to the above hypothesis , the rings of the secondary set which extended over a space of,14 of an inch , should suffer more than seven interruptions of shape and colour in the direction of the wedge of air .
In order to ascertain whether such an effect had any existence , I viewed the secondary set of rings upon every part of the glass-plate , by moving the convex lens from one end of it gradually to the other ; and my attention being particularly directed to the 3d , 4th , and , 5th rings , which were extremely T27 distinct , I saw them retain their shape and colour all the time without the smallest alteration .
The same experiment was repeated with a piece of plain glass instead of the metalline mirror , in order to give room for the fits of easy transmission , if they existed , to exert themselves ; but the result was still the same ; and the constancy of the brightness and colours of the rings of the secondary set , plainly proved that the rays of light were not affected by the thickness of the plate of air through which they passed .
XXXII .
Alternate Fits of easy Refection and easy Transmission , if they exist , do not exert themselves according to various Thicknesses of thin Plates of Glass .
I selected a well polished plate of coach glass 17 inches long , and about 9 broad .
Its thickness at one end was 33 , and at the other 31 two-hundredths of an inch ; so that in its whole length it differed tQ of an inch in thickeness .
By measuring many other parts of the plate I found that it was very regularly tapering from one end to the other .
This plate , with a double convex lens of 55 inches laid upon it , being placed upon a small metalline mirror , and properly exposed to the light , gave me the usual two sets of rings .
In the secondary set , which was the object of my attention , I counted twelve rings , and estimated the central space between them to be about 1itimes as broad as the space taken up by the 12 rings on either side ; the whole of the space taken up may therefore be reckoned equal to the breadth of 40 rings of a mean size : for the 12 rings , as usual , were gradually contracted in breadth as they receded from the center , and , by a measure of the whole space thus taken up , I found that the breadth of a ring of a mean size was about the 3o8th part of an inch .
Now , according to Sir I. NEWTON'S calculation of the action of the : fits of easy reflection and easy transmission in thick glass plates , an alternation from a reflecting to a transmitting fit requires a difference of ; -5part of an inch in thickness ; * and by calculation this difference took place in the glass plate that .
was used at every 8oth part of an inch of its whole length ; the 12rings , as well-as the central colour of the secondary set , should consequently have been broken by the exertion of the fits at every 8oth part of an inch ; and from the space over which these rings extended , which was about i3 inch , we find that theremust have been more than ten such interruptions or breaks in a set of which the 8oSth part was plainly to bedistinguished .
-But when I drew the glass plate gently over .
the small mirror , keeping the secondary set of rings in view , I found their shape ; and colour always completely well formed .
This-experiment was also repeated with a small plain glass instead of the-metalline mirror put under the large plate .
In this manner it still gave the same result , with no other difference but that only six rings could be distinctly seen in the secondary set , on account of the inferior reflection of the subjacent glass .
NEWTON ' .
Optics , P. 277 .
XXXIII .
Coloured Rzngs may be completely formed without the Assistance of any thin or thick Plates , either of Glass or of Air .
The experiment I am now to relate was at first intended to be reserved for the second part of this paper , because it properly belongs to the subject of the flection of the rays of light , which is not at present under consideration ; but as it particularly opposes the admission of alternate fits of easy reflection and easy transmission of these rays in their passage through plates of air or glass , by proving that their assistance in the formation of rings is not required , and also throws light upon a subject that has at different times been considered by some of our most acute experimentalists , I have used it at present , though only in one of the various arrangements , in which I shall have occasion to recur to it hereafter .
Sir I. NEWTON placed a concave glass mirror at double its focal length from a chart , and observed that the reflection of a beam of light admitted into a dark room , when thrown upon this mirror , gave " four or five concentric irises or rings of colours like " rainbows."* He accounts for them by alternate fits of easy reflection and easy transmission exerted in their passage through the glass-plate of the concave mirror.t The Duke De CHAULNES concluded from his own experiments of the same phenomena , : ' that these coloured rings depended upon " the first surface of the mirror , and that the " second surface , or that which reflects them after they had passed the first , only served to collect them and throw them o NSwTON 's Optics , p. z65 .
Ibid , p. 277 .
upon the pasteboard , in a quantity sufficient to make them " visible.'* ' Mr. BROUGHAM , after having considered what the two authors I have mentioned had done , says , " that upon the whole * ' there appears every reason to believe that the rings are " formed by the first surface out of the light which , after re " flection from the second surface , is scattered , and passes on &lt; to the chart.t ' My own experiment is as follows .
I placed a highly polished 7 feet mirror , but of metal instead of glass , that I might not have two surfaces , at the distance of 14:feet from a white screen , and through a hole in the middle of it one-tenth of an inch in diameter I admitted a beam of the sun into my dark room , directed so as to fall perpendicularly on the mirror .
In this arrangement the whole screen remained perfectly free from light , because the focus of all the rays which came to the mirror was by reflection thrown back into the hole through which they entered .
When all was duly prepared , I made an assistant strew some hair-powder with a puff into the beam of light , while I kept my attention fixed upon the screen .
As -soon as the hair-powder reached the beam of light the screen was suddenly covered with the most beautiful arrangement of concentric circles displaying all the brilliant colours of the rainbow .
A great variety in the size of the rings was obtained by making the assistant strew the powder into the beam at a greater distance from the mirror ; for the rings contract by an increase of the distance , and dilate on a nearer approach of the powder .
This .
: eperimenVt is : so : sinple , and points , out the , general causes of the rings which are here produced in so plain a manner , that we mayconfidently say ' they arise -from , the flection of the rays of light on the particles-of the , floating powder , modified by the .
: curvature of the refletifn-srface of the mirror .
Here we ' have no interposed plate of glass of a given^ thieck ness between one surface and another , that might produce the colours by 'reflecting some : rays of ligjt and transmitting others ; and .
if we were inclied to look upon the distance of the particles of the floating powder from the mirror as plates of air , it would not the possihbleto assign any certain thickises to them , since these particles may be spreadin the beam of light over a considerable space , and perhaps none of them wiU be exactly at the sane distace from the mirror .
, I shall not enter into a further analysis ofi thiexpem ent , as^ : th only puiwpose for:which it ' is given i thi* -pla isto show that the principle ofrthin orthck plates , eitherr of ai ore glass , on which the rays might .
alternatelye exert teirt fits of easy reftetion aid easy transmission , must be given up , and that the fits thernsetB es of course cannot bei shown to have any exstence .
XXXIV .
Conclusion .
It wfil hardly be necessary to say , that all the theory relating to the size of the parts of natural bodies and their interstices , which Sir I. NEWTOiN has founded upon the existence of fits of easy reflection arid easy transismission , exerted differen'tly , according to the different thickness of the thin plates of which he supposes the parts of natural bodies to consist , will remain imsupported ; for if the above mentioned fits have no existence , 6 I. 15 6 4:1 3 o. ? ?
2Z ~~u:~~X .
2794 ii 5/ 7.J6 .
jf 11 7/ .
' &lt; X1 , ii .
( Y. !
7 1/ ..1 5\3\ 6/ 2 1'/ 2 l : a1/ Z / \ c ' %7/ 1 t7-13 -b ?
I Lw |X ?
it ; ._o " i , ,. .
t --A ` _ -6~~-1- the whole foundation on which the theory of the size of such parts is placed , will be taken away , and we shall consequently have to look .
out for a more firm basis on which a similar edifice may be placed .
That there is such a one we cannot doubt , and what I have already said will lead us to look for it in the modifying power which the two surfaces , that have been proved to be essential to the formation of rings , exert upon the rays of light .
The SecondPart of this Paper , therefore , will enter into an examination of the various modifications that light receives in its approach to , entrance into , or passage by , differently disposed surfaces or bodies ; in order to disco.ve ; , if:possibl ?
e , which.rthem may the , the , immediate cause of thi wcoIourad rings tlbat.ware : ?
ormend-betweeie , gl2asese

