XX .
Catalogue of a second Thousand of new Nebulae and Clusters of Stars ; with a few introductory Remarks on the Construction of the Heavens .
By William Herschel , L L. D. F. R. S. Read June 11 , 1789 .
BY the continuation of a review of the heavens with my twenty-feet reflector , I am now furnished with a second thousand of new Nebulae .
These curious objects , not only on account of their number , but also in consideration of their great consequence , as being no less than whole sidereal systems , we may hope , will in future engage the attention of Astronomers .
With a view to induce them to undertake the necessary observations , I offer them the following catalogue , which , like my former one , of which it is a continuation , contains a short description of each nebula or cluster of stars , as well as its situation with respect to some known object .
The form of this work , it will be seen , is exactly that of the former part , the classes and numbers being continued , and the same letters used to express , in the shortest way , as many essential features of the objects as could possibly be crowded into so small a compass as that to which I thought it expedient to limit myself .
The method I have taken of analyzing the heavens , if I may so express myself , is perhaps the only one by which we can arrive at a knowledge of their construction .
In the prosecution of so extensive an undertaking , it may well be supposed that many things must have been suggested , by the great variety in the order , the size , and the compression of the stars , as they presented themselves to my view , which it will not be improper to communicate .
To begin our investigation according to some order , let us depart from the objects immediately around us to the most remote that our telescopes , of the greatest power to penetrate into space , can reach .
We shall touch but slightly on things that have already been remarked .
From the earth , considered as a planet , and the moon as its satellite , we pass through the region of the rest of the planets , and their satellites .
The similarity between all these bodies is sufficiently striking to allow us to comprehend them under one general definition , of bodies not luminous in themselves , revolving round the sun .
The great diminution of light , when reflected from such bodies , especially when they are also at a great distance from the light which illuminates them , precludes all possibility of following them a great way into space .
But if we did not know that light diminishes as the squares of the distances increase , and that moreover in every reflection a very considerable part is entirely lost , the motion of comets , whereby the space through which they run is measured out to us , while on their return from the sun we see them gradually disappear as they advance towards their aphelia , would be sufficient to convince us that bodies shining only with borrowed light can never be seen at any very great distance .
This consideration brings us back to the sun , as a refulgent fountain of light , whilst it establishes at the same time beyond a doubt that every star must likewise be a sun , shining by its own native brightness .
Here then we come to the more capital parts of the great construction .
These suns , every one of which is probably of as much consequence to a system of planets , satellites , and comets , as our own sun , are now to be considered , in their turn , as the minute parts of a proportionally greater whole .
I need not repeat that by my analysis it appears , that the heavens consist of regions where suns are gathered into separate systems , and that the catalogues I have given comprehend a list of such systems ; but may we not hope that our knowledge will not stop short at the bare enumeration of phenomenon capable of giving us so much instruction ?
Why should we be less inquisitive than the natural philosopher , who sometimes , even from an inconsiderable number of specimens of a plant , or an animal , is enabled to present us with the history of its rise , progress , and decay ?
Let us then compare together , and class some of these numerous sidereal groups , that we may trace the operations of natural causes as far as we can perceive their agency .
The most simple form , in which we can view a sidereal system , is that of being globular .
This also , very favourably to our design , is that which has presented itself most frequently , and of which I have given the greatest collection .
But , first of all , it will be necessary to explain what is our idea of a cluster of stars , and by what means we have obtained it .
For an instance , I shall take the phenomenon which presents itself in many clusters : It is that of a number of lucid spots , of equal lustre , scattered over a circular space , in such a manner as to appear gradually more compressed towards the middle ; and which compression , in the clusters to which I allude , is generally carried so far , as , by imperceptible degrees , to end in a luminous center , of a resolvable blaze of light .
To solve this appearance , it may be conjectured , that stars of any given , very unequal magnitudes , may easily be so arranged , in scattered , much extended , irregular rows , as to produce the above described picture ; or , that stars , scattered about almost promiscuously within the frustum of a given cone , may be assigned of such properly diversified magnitudes as also to form the same picture .
But who , that is acquainted with the doctrine of chances , can seriously maintain such improbable conjectures ?
To consider this only in a very coarse way , let us suppose a cluster to consist of 5000 stars , and that each of them may be put into one of 5000 given places , and have one of 5000 assigned magnitudes .
Then , without extending our calculation any further , we have five and twenty millions of chances , out of which only one will answer the above improbable conjecture , while all the rest are against it .
When we now remark that this relates only to the given places within the frustum of a supposed cone , whereas these stars might have been scattered all over the visible space of the heavens ; that they might have been scattered , even within the supposed cone , in a million of places different from the assumed ones , the chance of this apparent cluster 's not being a real one , will be rendered so highly improbable that it ought to be entirely rejected .
Mr. Michell computes , with respect to the six brightest stars of the Pleiades only , that the odds are near 500 000 to 1 that no six stars , out of the number of those which are equal in splendour to the faintest of them , scattered at random in the whole heavens , would be within so small a distance from each other as the Pleiades are * .
* Phil. Trans. vol. LVII , p. 246~ Taking it then for granted that the stars which appear to be gathered together in a group are in reality thus accumulated , I proceed to prove also that they are nearly of an equal magnitude .
The cluster itself , on account of the small angle it subtends to the eye , we must suppose to be very far removed from us .
For , were the stars which compose it at the same distance from one another as Sirius is from the sun ; and supposing the cluster to be seen under an angle of 10 minutes , and to contain 50 stars in one of its diameters , we should have the mean distance of such stars twelve seconds ; and therefore the distance of the cluster from us about seventeen thousand times greater than the distance of Sirius .
Now , since the apparent magnitude of these stars is equal , and their distance from us is also equal , because we may safely neglect the diameter of the cluster , which , if the center be seventeen thousand times the distance of Sirius from us , will give us seventeen thousand and twentyfive for the farthest , and seventeen thousand wanting twenty-five for the nearest star of the cluster ; -it follows that we must either give up the idea of a cluster , and recur to the above refuted supposition , or admit the equality of the stars that compose these clusters .
It is to be remarked that we do not mean entirely to exclude all variety of size ; for the very great distance , and the consequent smallness of the component clustering stars , will not permit us to be extremely precise in the estimation of their magnitudes ; though we have certainly seen enough of them to know that they are contained within pretty narrow limits ; and do not , perhaps , exceed each other in magnitude more than in some such proportion as one fullgrown plant of a certain species may exceed another full-grown plant of the same species .
If we have drawn proper conclusions relating to the size of stars , we may with still greater safety speak of their relative situations , and affirm that in the same distances from the center an equal scattering takes place .
If this were not the case , the appearance of a cluster could not be uniformly increasing in brightness towards the middle , but would appear nebulous in those parts which were more crowded with stars ; but , as far as we can distinguish , in the clusters of which we speak , every concentric circle maintains an equal degree of compression , as long as the stars are visible ; and when they become too crowded to be distinguished , an equal brightness takes place , at equal distances from the center , which is the most luminous part .
The next step in my argument will be to show that these clusters are of a globular form .
This again we rest on the sound doctrine of chances .
Here , by way of strength to our argument , we may be allowed to take in all round nebulae , though the reasons we have for believing that they consist of stars have not as yet been entered into .
For , what I have to say concerning their spherical figure will equally hold good whether they be groups of stars or not .
In my catalogues we have , I suppose , not less than one thousand of these round objects .
Now , whatever may be the shape of a group of stars , or of a Nebula , which we would introduce instead of the spherical one , such as a cone , an ellipsis , a spheroid , a circle or a cylinder , it will be evident that out of a thousand situations , which the axes of such forms may have , there is but one that can answer the phenomenon for which we want to account ; and that is , when those axes are exactly in a line drawn from the object to the place of the observer .
Here again we have a million of chances of which all but one are against any other hypothesis than that which we maintain , and which , for this reason , ought to be admitted .
The last thing to be inferred from the above related appearances is , that these clusters of stars are more condensed towards the center than at the surface .
If there should be a group of stars in a spherical form , consisting of such as were equally scattered over all the assigned space , it would not appear to be very gradually more compressed and brighter in the middle ; much less would it seem to have a bright nucleus in the center .
A spherical cluster of an equal compression within , -for that such there are will be seen hereafter , -may be distinguished by the degrees of brightness which take place in going from the center to the circumference .
Thus , when a is the brightness in the center , it will be ~ a2 x2 at any other distance x from the center .
Or , putting a= 1 , and x= any decimal fraction ; then , in a table of natural sines , where x is the sine , the brightness at x will be expressed by the cosine .
Now , as a gradual increase of brightness does not agree with the degrees calculated from a supposition of an equal scattering , and as the cluster has been proved to be spherical , it must needs be admitted that there is indeed a greater accumulation towards the center .
And thus , from the above-mentioned appearances , we come to know that there are globular clusters of stars nearly equal in size , which are scattered evenly at equal distances from the middle , but with an increasing accumulation towards the center .
We may now venture to raise a superstructure upon the arguments that have been drawn from the appearance of clusters of stars and nebulae of the form I have been examining , which is that of which I have made mention in my ` ` Theoreti7 ` ` cal cal view-Formation of Nebulae-Form I* .
' ' It is to be remarked that when I wrote the paragraph I refer to , I delineated nature as well as I do now ; but , as I there gave only a general sketch , without referring to particular cases , what I then delivered may have been looked upon as little better than hypothetical reasoning , whereas in the present instance this objection is entirely removed , since actual and particular facts are brought to vouch for the truth of every inference .
Having then established that the clusters of stars of the 1st Form , and round nebulae , are of a spherical figure , I think myself plainly authorized to conclude that they are thus formed by the action of central powers .
To manifest the validity of this inference , the figure of the earth may be given as an instance ; whose rotundity , setting aside small deviations , the causes of which are well known , is without hesitation allowed to be a phenomenon decisively establishing a centripetal force .
Nor do we stand in need of the revolving satellites of Jupiter , Saturn , and the Georgium Sidus , to assure us that the same powers are likewise lodged in the masses of these planets .
Their globular figure alone must be admitted as a sufficient argument to render this point uncontrovertible .
We also apply this inference with equal propriety to the body of the sun , as well as to that of Mercury , Venus , Mars , and the Moon ; as owing their spherical shape to the same cause .
And how can we avoid inferring , that the construction of the clusters of stars , and nebulae likewise , of which we have been speaking , is as evidently owing to central powers ?
Besides , the step that I here make in my inference is in fact a very easy one , and such as ought freely to be granted .
Have I not already shown that these clusters cannot have come to * Phil. Trans. vol. LXXV , p. 214 .
their present formation by any random scattering of stars ?
The doctrine of chance , by exposing the very great odds against such hypotheses , may be said to demonstrate that the stars are thus assembled by some power or other .
Then , what do I attempt more than merely to lead the mind to the conditions under which this power is seen to act ?
In a case of such consequence I may be permitted to be a little more diffuse , and draw additional arguments from the internal construction of spherical clusters and nebulae .
If we find that there is not only a general form , which , as has been proved , is a sufficient manifestation of a centripetal force , what shall we say when the accumulated condensation , which every where follows a direction towards a center , is even visible to the very eye ?
Were we not already acquainted with attraction , this gradual condensation would point out a central power , by the remarkable disposition of the stars tending towards a center .
In consequence of this visible accumulation , whether it may be owing to attraction only , or whether other powers may assist in the formation , we ought not hesitate to ascribe the effect to such as are central ; no phenomenon being more decisive in that particular , than those of which I am treating .
I am fully aware of the consequences I shall draw upon myself in but mentioning other powers that might contribute to the formation of clusters .
A mere hint of this kind , it will be expected , ought not to be given without sufficient foundation ; but let it suffice at present to remark that my arguments cannot be affected by my terms : whether I am right to use the plural number , -central powers , -or whether I ought only to say , the known central force of gravity , -my conclusions will be equally valid .
I will however add , that the idea of other central powers being concerned in the construction of the sidereal heavens , is not one that has only lately occurred to me .
Long ago I have entertained a certain theory of diversified central powers of attractions and repulsions ; an exposition of which I have even delivered in the years 1780 , and 1781 , to the Philosophical Society then existing at Bath , in several mathematical papers upon that subject .
I shall , however , set aside an explanation of this theory , which would not only exceed the intended limits of this paper , but is moreover not required for what remains at present to be added , and therefore may be given some other time , when I can enter more fully into the subject of the interior construction of sidereal systems .
To return , then , to the case immediately under our present consideration , it will be sufficient that I have abundantly proved that the formation of round clusters of stars and nebulae is either owing to central powers , or at least to one such force as refers to a center .
I shall now extend the weight of my argument , by taking in likewise every cluster of stars or nebula that shows a gradual condensation , or increasing brightness , towards a center or certain point ; whether the outward shape of such clusters or nebulae be round , extended , or of any other given form .
What has been said with regard to the doctrine of chance , will of course apply to every cluster , and more especially to the extended and irregular shaped ones , on account of their greater size : It is among these that we find the largest assemblages of stars , and most diffusive nebulosities ; and therefore the odds against such assemblages happening without some particular power to gather them , increase exceedingly with the number of the stars that are taken together .
But if the gradual accumulation either of stars or increasing brightness has before been admitted as a direction to the seat of power , the same effect will equally point out the same cause in the cases now under consideration .
There are besides some additional circumstances in the appearance of extended clusters and nebulae , that very much favour the idea of a power lodged in the brightest part .
Although the form of them be not globular , it is plainly to be seen that there is a tendence towards sphericity , by the swell of the dimensions the nearer we draw towards the most luminous place , denoting as it were a course , or tide of stars , setting towards a center .
And-if allegoral expressions may be allowed-it should seem as if the stars thus flocking towards the seat of power were stemmed by the crowd of those already assembled , and that while some of them are successful in forcing their predecessors sideways out of their places , others are themselves obliged to take up with lateral situations , while all of them seem equally to strive for a place in the central swelling , and generating spherical figure .
Since then almost all the nebulae and clusters of stars I have seen , the number of which is not less than three and twenty hundred , are more condensed and brighter in the middle ; and since , from every form , it is now equally apparent that the central accumulation or brightness must be the result of central powers , we may venture to affirm that this theory is no longer an unfounded hypothesis , but is fully established on grounds which cannot be overturned .
Let us endeavour to make some use of this important view of the constructing cause , which can thus model sidereal systems .
Perhaps , by placing before us the very extensive and varied collection of clusters , and nebulae furnished by my catalogues , we may be able to trace the progress of its operation , in the great laboratory of the Universe .
If these clusters and nebulae were all of the same shape , and had the same gradual condensation , we should make but little progress in this inquiry ; but , as we find so great a variety in their appearances , we shall be much sooner at a loss how to account for such various phenomenon , than be in want of materials upon which to exercise our inquisitive endeavours .
Some of these round clusters consist of stars of a certain magnitude , and given degree of compression , while the whole cluster itself takes up a space of perhaps 10 minutes ; others appear to be made up of stars that are much smaller , and much more compressed , when at the same time the cluster itself subtends a much smaller angle , such as 5 minutes .
This diminution of the apparent size , and compression of stars , as well as diameter of the cluster to 4 , 3 , 2 minutes , may very consistently be ascribed to the different distances of these clusters from the place in which we observe them ; in all which cases we may admit a general equality of the sizes , and compression of the stars that compose them , to take place .
It is also highly probable that a continuation of such decreasing magnitudes , and increasing compression , will justly account for the appearance of round , easily resolvable , nebulae ; where there is almost a certainty of their being clusters of stars .
And no Astronomer can hesitate to go still farther , and extend his surmises by imperceptible steps to other nebulae , that still preserve the same characteristics , with the only variations of vanishing brightness , and reduction of size .
Other clusters there are that , when they come to be compared with some of the former , seem to contain stars of an equal magnitude , while their compression appears to be considerably different .
Here the supposition of their being at different distances will either not explain the apparently greater compression , or , if admitted to do this , will convey to us a very instructive consequence : which is , that the stars which are thus supposed not to be more compressed than those in the former cluster , but only to appear so on account of their greater distance , must needs be proportionally larger , since they do not appear of less magnitude than the former .
As therefore , one or other of these hypotheses must be true , it is not all improbable but that , in some instances , the stars may be more compressed ; and in others , of a greater magnitude .
This variety of size , in different spherical clusters , I am however inclined to believe , may not go farther than the difference in size , found among the individuals belonging to the same species of plants , or animals , in their different states of age , or vegetation , after they are come to a certain degree of growth .
A farther inquiry into the circumstance of the extent , both of condensation and variety of size , that may take place with the stars of different clusters , we shall postpone till other things have been previously discussed .
Let us then continue to turn our view to the power which is moulding the different assortments of stars into spherical clusters .
Any force , that acts uninterruptedly , must produce effects proportional to the time of its action .
Now , as it has been shown that the spherical figure of a cluster of stars is owing to central powers , it follows that those clusters which , ceteris paribus , are the most complete in this figure , must have been the longest exposed to the action of these causes .
This will admit of various points of views .
Suppose for instance that 5000 stars had been once in a certain scattered situation , and that other 5000 equal stars had been in the same situation , then that of the two clusters which had been longest exposed to the action of the modelling power , we suppose , would be most condensed , and more advanced to the maturity of its figure .
An obvious consequence that may be drawn from this consideration is , that we are enabled to judge of the relative age , maturity , or climax of a sidereal system , from the disposition of its component parts ; and , making the degrees of brightness in nebulae stand for the different accumulation of stars in clusters , the same conclusions will extend equally to them all .
But we are not to conclude from what has been said that every spherical cluster is of an equal standing in regard to absolute duration , since one that is composed of a thousand stars only , must certainly arrive to the perfection of its form sooner than another , which takes in a range of a million .
Youth and age are comparative expressions ; and an oak of a certain age may be called very young , while a cotemporary shrub is already on the verge of its decay .
The method of judging with some assurance of the condition of any sidereal system may perhaps into improperly be drawn from the standard laid down page 218 ; so that , for instance , a cluster or nebula which is very gradually more compressed and bright towards the middle , may be in the perfection of its growth , when another which approaches to the condition pointed out by a more equal compression , such as the nebulae I have called Planetary seem to present us with , may be looked upon as very aged , and drawing on towards a period of change , or dissolution .
This has been before surmised , when , in a former paper , I considered the uncommon degree of compression that must prevail in a nebula to give it a planetary aspect ; but the argument , which is now drawn from the powers that have collected the formerly scattered stars to the form we find they have assumed , must greatly corroborate that sentiment .
This method of viewing the heavens seems to throw them into a new kind of light .
They now are seen to resemble a luxuriant garden , which contains the greatest variety of productions , in different flourishing beds ; and one advantage we may at least reap from it is , that we can , as it were , extend the range of our experience to an immense duration .
For , to continue the simile I have borrowed from the vegetable kingdom , is it not almost the same thing , whether we live successively to witness the germination , blooming , foliage , fecundity , fading , withering , and corruption of a plant , or whether a vast number of specimens , selected from every stage through which the plant passes in the course of its existence , be brought at once to our view ?
WILLIAM HERSCHEL .
Slough near Windsor , May 1 , 1789 .
First Class .
Bright nebulae .
I. 1785 Stars .
M. S. D.M.Ob Description .
94 April 28 61 Ursae f06n2 17 2 cB .
pL .
E. sp nf .
vgmbM .
31/ 2 l. 2~b .
95 f 35 0n272 cB .
cL .
E. np sf .
bM .
4~l .
3 b. 96 May 1 14 Canum f5 30 n1 12 2 vB. cL .
mE .
sp nf .
smbM.6~l .
1~1/ 2b .
97 f7 58 n0 47 1 vB.pL .
E. nearly mer. gmbM .
98 f 36 50 s0 12 1 cB .
pL .
R. vgmbM .
99 27 ( ~ ) Bootis p 13 46 s1 46 2 vB. S. R. vsmbM .
100 Sept. 10 41 Ceti f 13 43 n0 48 1 cB .
pS .
R. mbM .
See III.431 .
101 67 p 17 19 n0 25 2 cB .
pL .
E. near .
mer. mbM .
5~ l. 102 f 21 37 s0 13 2 cB .
pL .
R. mbM .
103 24 14 Delphini p 16 10 s031 vB. L. gmbM .
er .
beautif .
object .
104 28 93 ( ~ ) Aqua f18n0 42 1 cB.cL .
E. near .
mer.gmbM .
F.rays .
105 Oct. 3 47 Ceti f 26 24 s0 37 1 cB .
pL .
iR .
mbM .
106 89 ( ~ ) f 38 10 s1 24 2 cB cL .
iR .
bM .
3~ dia. 107 6 20 Eridani f43s142 vB. R. BNM .
1~1/ 2 dia. 108 8 111 ( ~ ) Pisem p 34 22 s011 cB .
vL .
iR .
p. vBst .
109 26 12 Eridani p7 17 n2 54 3 cB.pS.lE.mer.mbM.r .
1~1/ 2I .

