The Croonian Lecture .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read November 16 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 1 .
] Since the remarks , which the author has connected together on the present occasion , as tending , each of them , to promote the design of Dr. Croone , do not appear to bear any direct relation to each other , he divides the lecture into three distinct heads ; the first of which contains an observation , and some experiments on the duration of muscular action .
In the second he traces the origin of sea-sickness , from a mechanical cause deranging the circulation of the blood .
In the third he offers a mechanical explanation of the advantages derived from riding , and the various modes of carriage exercise .
With regard to the duration of muscular action , the author is of opinion that each effort , apparently single , consists in reality of a great number of contractions , repeated at extremely short intervals .
He infers the existence of these alternate motions , from a sound observed upon inserting the extremity of the finger into the ear .
The sound resembles that of carriages at some distance passing rapidly over a pavement .
The sound is not perceived when the force applied to stop the ear is not muscular , unless the action of some distant muscle be communicated through some medium capable of conveying its vibrations .
With a view to estimate the frequency of these vibrations , the author contrived to imitate them by rubbing a stick , regularly notched , and placing it in such a position , that the tremor was communicated to the ear along , with the muscular vibrations .
The results of such trials was , that the vibratory alternations recur between twenty and thirty times in a second , but varying in number in proportion to the degree of force exerted by the muscle .
The utmost frequency which he has observed , he estimated at 35 , and the lowest 15 .
But he considers the visible unsteadiness of an aged or infirm person , to arise from a less frequent repetition of the same motions .
In the second part of this lecture , which treats of sea-sickness , the author described an irregularity that he observed in his respiration , after having suffered some days from that affection , which appeared to be an involuntary effort of the constitution to relieve itself , by counteracting the effects of the motion of the ship .
In waking from a disturbed sleep , he remarked that each effort of inspiration was suspended for a time , and was then taken with a certain feeling of adaptation to some unknown motion of the sea .
In reflecting afterwards upon this observation , it appeared to him that the act of inspiration might afford relief by means of its effect upon the circulation .
For since , when the skull is trepanned , the effect of inspiration in withdrawing blood from the brain is manifested by the alternate heaving and subsidence of the brain , in alternate motion with the opposite states of the chest , the act of inspiration must tend to counteract any cause propelling blood to the head .
And such a cause of pressure will manifestly occur in the descent of a ship by the subsidence of a wave on which it rests .
When a person is standing erect upon deck , the motions of the column of blood contained in his vessels may be compared to those of quicksilver in a barometer .
When the deck descends , the fluids no longer press with their whole weight against the force which supported them .
The mercury continuing to be pressed with the whole weight of the atmosphere is seen to rise in the tube containing it , and so also the blood continuing to be pressed with the same elasticity of the vessels , which before supported its whole weight , is now driven upwards by the excess of force , and the most distressing sensation of sickness is then felt in consequence of its pressure upon the brain .
But if an effort of inspiration be exerted at the same instant , it cannot but lessen this propensity , and have some effect in relieving the consequences .
An opposite effect is also noticed by the author to arise from motion in an opposite direction .
For when a person rises very suddenly from an inclined position , and is at the same time , by previous fatigue , more than usually sensible of the consequences , he perceives a temporary sensation of faintness and giddiness , by partial abstraction of blood from the vessels of the brain ; and may immediately relieve these symptoms by descending again suddenly to his former posture .
The explanation contained in the third part of the lecture , of the salutary effects of external or passive motion , is founded upon one necessary consequence which , he observes , must take place from mere mechanical agitation .
Since the direction in which the circulation of the blood is carried forward in animal bodies , is given solely by the position of the valves that are to be found in the circulating system , so also will a similar direction be given to the effects of external motion .
Every motion tending to propel forward the blood , will hence assist the powers of the heart ; but such as have a contrary tendency will be resisted by the interposition of the valves , and cannot occasion proportional obstruction to the regular progress of the blood ; the heart is thus assisted in the work of restoring a system , which has recently struggled with some violent attack , or allowed , as it were , to rest from a labour to which it is no longer equal , when the powers of life are nearly exhausted by some lingering disorder .
It is conceived that all the other animal functions must participate in the relief thus afforded to so important an organ ; and it is remarked , that even the powers of the mind itself , though most remote from our conception of material agents , are , in many persons , thus immediately affected , by the consequences of a merely mechanical operation .

