VI .
" On a new Astronomical Clock , and a Pendulum Governor for Uniform Motion .
" By Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1869 .
It seems strange that the dead-beat escapement should still hold its place in the astronomical clock , when its geometrical transformation , the cylinder escapement of the same inventor , Graham , only survives in Geneva watches of the cheaper class .
For better portable time-keepers , it has been altered ( through the rack-and-pinion movement ) into the detached lever , which has proved much more accurate .
If it is possible to make astronomical clocks go better than at present by merely giving them a better escapement , it is quite certain that one on the same principle as the detached lever , or as the ship-chronometer escapement , would improve their time-keeping .
But the inaccuracies hitherto tolerated in astronomical clocks may be due more to the faultiness of the mercury compensation pendulum , and of the mode in which it is hung , and of the instability of the supporting clock-case or framework , than to imperfection of the escapement and the greatness of the arc of vibration which it requires ; therefore it would be wrong to expect confidently much improvement in the time-keeping merely from improvement of the escapement .
I have therefore endeavoured to improve both the compensation for change of temperature in the pendulum , and the mode of its support , in a clock which I have recently made with an escapement on a new principle , in which the simplicity of the dead-beat escapement of Graham is retained , while its great defect , the stopping of the whole train of wheels by pressure of a tooth upon a surface moving with the pendulum , is remedied .
Imagine the escapement-wheel of a common dead-beat clock to be mounted on a collar fitting easily upon a shaft , instead of being rigidly attached to it .
Let friction be properly applied between the shaft and the collar , so that the wheel shall be carried round by the shaft unless resisted by a force exceeding some small definite amount , and let a governor giving uniform motion be applied to the train of wheel-work connected with this shaft , and so adjusted that , when the escapement-wheel is unresisted , it will move faster by a small percentage than it ought to move when the clock is keeping time properly .
Now let the escapement-wheel , thus mounted and carried round , act upon the escapement , just as it does in the ordinary clock .
It will keep the pendulum vibrating , and will , just as in the ordinary clock , be held back every time it touches the escapement during the interval required to set it right again from having gone too fast during the preceding interval of motion .
But in the ordinary clock the interval of rest is considerable , generally greater than the interval of motion .
In the new clock it is equal to a small fraction of the interval of motion : J in the clock as now working , but to be reduced probably to something much smaller yet .
The simplest appliance to count the turns of this escapement-wheel ( a worm , for instance , working upon a wheel with thirty teeth , carrying a hand round , which will correspond to the seconds ' hand of the clock ) completes the instrument ; for minute and hour-hands are a superfluity in an astronomical clock .
In various trials which I have made since the year 1865 , when this plan of escapement first occurred to me , I have used several different forms , all answering to the preceding description , although differing widely in their geometrical and mechanical characters .
In all of them the escapementwheel is reduced to a single tooth or arm , to diminish as much as possible the moment of inertia of the mass stopped by the pendulum .
This arm revolves in the period of the pendulum ( two seconds for a one second 's pendulum ) , or some multiple of it .
Thus the pendulum may execute one or more complete periods of vibration without being touched by the escapement .
I look forward to carrying the principle of the governed motion for the escapement-shaft much further than hitherto , and adjusting it to gain only about T-O7 per cent. on the pendulum ; and then I shall probably arrange that each pallet of the escapement be touched only once a minute ( and the counter may be dispensed with ) .
The only other point of detail which I need mention at present is that the pallets have been , in all my trials , attached to the bottom of the pendulum , projecting below it , in order that satisfactory action with a very small arc of vibration ( not more on each side than TXof the radius , or 1 centimetre for the seconds ' pendulum ) may be secured .
My trials were rendered practically abortive from 1865 until a few months ago by the difficulty of obtaining a satisfactory governor for the uniform motion of the escapement-shaft ; this difficulty is quite overcome in the pendulum governor , which I now proceed to describe .
Imagine a pendulum with single-tooth escapement mounted on a collar loose on the escapement-shaft just as described above the shaft , however , beingvertical in this case .
A square-threaded screwis cut on the upperquarter of the length of the shaft , this being the part of it on which the collar works , and a pin fixed to the collar projects inwards to the furrow of the screw , so that , if the collar is turned relatively to the shaft , it will be carried along , as the nut of a screw , but with less friction than an ordinary nut .
The main escapement-shaft just described is mounted vertically .
The lower screw and long nut collar , three-quarters of the length of the escapement-shaft , are surrounded by a tube which , by wheel-work , is carried round about five per cent. faster than the central shaft .
This outer shaft , by means of friction produced by the pressure of proper springs , carries the nut collar round along with it , except when the escapement-tooth is stopped by either of the pallets attached to the pendulum .
A stiff cross piece ( like the head of a T ) , projecting each way from the top of the tubular shaft , carries , hanging down from it , the governing masses of a centrifugal friction governor .
These masses are drawn towards the axis by springs , the inner ends of which are acted on by the nut collar , so that the higher or the lower the latter is in its range , the springs pull the masses inwards with less or more force .
A fixed metal ring coaxial with the main shaft holds the governing masses in when their centrifugal forces exceed the forces of the springs , and resists the motion by forces of friction increasing approximately in simple proportion to the excess of the speed above that which just balances the forces of the springs .
As long as the escapement-tooth is unresisted , .
the nut collar is carried round with the quicker motion of the outer tubular shaft , and so it screws upwards , diminishing the force of the springs .
Once every semiperiod of the pendulum it is held back by either pallet , and the nut collar screws down as much as it rose during the preceding interval of freedom when the action is regular ; and the central or main escapement-shaft turns in the same period as the tooth , being the period of the pendulum .
If through increase or diminution of the driving-power , or diminution or increase of the coefficient of friction between the governing masses and the ring on which they press , the shaft tends to turn faster or slower , the nut collar works its way down or up the screw , until the governor is again regulated , and gives the same speed in the altered circumstances .
It is easy to arrange that a large amount of regulating power shall be implied in a single turn of the nut collar relatively to the central shaft , and yet that the periodic application and removal of about - ; tof this amount in the half period of the pendulum shall cause but a very small periodic variation in the speed .
The latter important condition is secured by the great moment of inertia of the governing masses themselves round the main shaft .
I hope , after a few months ' trial , to be able to present a satisfactory report of the performance of the clock now completed according to the principles explained above .
As many of the details of execution may become modified after practical trial , it is unnecessary that I should describe them minutely at present .
Its general appearance , and the arrangement of its characteristic parts , may be understood from the photograph now laid before the Society .

