8 .
" A Mathematical Theory of Magnetism .
" By William Thomson , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S.E. , Fellow of St. Peter 's College , Cambridge , and Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Glasgow .
The Theory of Magnetism was first mathematically treated in a complete form by Poisson .
Brief sketches of his theory , with some simplifications , have been given by Green and Murphy in their works on Electricity and Magnetism .
In all these writings a hypothesis of two magnetic fluids has been adopted , and strictly adhered to throughout .
No physical evidence can be adduced in support of such a hypothesis ; but , on the contrary , recent discoveries , especially in electro-magnetism , render it excessively improbable .
Hence it is of importance that all reasoning with reference to magnetism should be conducted without assuming the existence of those hypothetical fluids .
The writer of the present paper endeavours to show that a complete mathematical theory of magnetism may be established upon the sole foundation of facts generally known , and Coulomb 's special experimental researches .
The first part of the paper contains a general theory of magnets ; the theory of magnetic induction , or of magnetization being reserved for communications which the author proposes to offer subsequently to the Royal Society .
The five chapters which have already been communicated bear the following titles : CHAP .
I. ( §§ 3-20 ) .
Preliminary Definitions and Explanations .
CHAP .
IL .
( §§ 21-31 ) .
On the Laws of Magnetic Force , and on the Distribution of Magnetism in Magnetized Matter .
CHAP .
III .
( §§ 32-44 ) .
On the Imaginary Magnetic Matter by means of which the Polarity of a Magnetized Body may be represented .
CHAP .
IV .
( §§ 45-64 ) .
Determination of the Mutual Actions between any Given Portions of Magnetized Matter .
CHAP .
V. ( §§ 65-84 ) .
On Solenoidal and Lamellar Distributions of Magnetism .
In the second chapter the method of specifying , by ' intensity and direction of magnetization " at every part of it , the magnetism of a magnet , is given ; being founded on the elementary phenomena , and Coulomb 's laws of magnetic force , which are explained in Chap. I. and the beginning of Chap. II .
In the third chapter , by a strictly synthetical investigation , corresponding closely with that investigation of " the equation of continuity " in fluid motion which is analogous to Fourier 's investigation of the equation of motion of heat in a conducting solid , a certain distribution of " imaginary magnetic matter " consisting of equal quantities of positive and negative , or northern and southern matter each occupying finite portions of the body or of its surface separated from those occupied by the other , is shown to represent the polarity of a magnet according to the assumed properties of this magnetic matter .
The formulae by means of which the resultant action between two entire magnets of finite dimensions is determined are much simplified by this conventional method of representing polarity .
The result of the investigation agrees with what is expressed by a certain formula of Poisson 's , deduced by a process of integration by parts , from his elementary expression for the function since called by Green the " potential , " at any point in the neighbourhood of a magnet .
Hence the investigation of Chap. III .
leads , as is shown at the commencement of Chap. IV .
, to a strictly synthetical proof of that remarkable formula .
The fourth chapter contains , in the first place , formula for the t " potential , " and for the " magnetic force , " at any point in the neighbourhood of a magnet , which agree with those of Poisson ; and secondly , formulm for the resultant action experienced by any finite portion of magnetized matter placed in a " field of force , " either given , or determined by the preceding formula from a specification of the magnets to which it is due , by which the mathematical treatment , according to one method , of the problem which forms the subject of the chapter is completed .
The chapter is concluded with the statement of a method of expressing the mutual action between two magnets by means of the differential coefficients of a function of their relative position , which is of importance chiefly because the principles on which it is founded lead to a new field of investigation in the theory of magnetism , having for subject the " mechanical value of magnetic distributions .
" The fifth chapter contains , in the first place , explanations of the principal properties of the peculiar distributions to which the author has given the names of solenoidal and lamellar .
A solenoidal distribution may be briefly defined as one of which the polarity ' , or the representative imaginary magnetic matter is entirely superficial ; and a lamellar distribution , as one of which the representative galvanism , or the resultant equivalent electrical currents , are entirely superficial .
If a , y/ , y be the components of the intensity of magnetization at any point x , y , z of a magnet , the condition that the distribution of magnetisni may be solenoidal is expressed by the equation da d die O dx die dz and , again , the condition that the distribution may be lamellar is expressed by the three equations d/ 3 die die ddy da da d. =01 -------0 ---0 dz die dx dz die dx In the concluding part of Chap. V. three new methods of analysing the action of a magnet , suggested by the consideration of these special forms of distribution , and constituting , with Poisson 's method mentioned above , a system of four expressions for the magnetic force connected with one another by certain analogies , are given .
One of these ( Poisson 's ) expresses the force at any point in terms of double integrals for the surface ( the components of the force due to the superficial polarity ) ; and triple integrals for the whole interior , da df dT involving da-+d , and vanishing when this vanishes , i.e. dx die dz when the distribution is solenoidal .
The analogue of this expresses the force in terms of double integrals for the surface ( the components of the force due to the superficial representative galvanism ) and riple integrals for the whole interior , involving d3 die die da da df dz dy ' dx dz ' die dx and vanishing when these vanish , i. e when the distribution is lamellar .
Of the two remaining methods , one is confined to solenoidal distributions , and expresses the magnetic force at any external point , or at any internal point in an infinitely small crevass tangential to the lines of magnetization , as the resultant of a certain distribution of tangential magnetization in an infinitely thin shell , coinciding with the surface , and occurred to the author as the analogue of a method which he had long before found for expressing the force due to a lamellar distribution .
In this last-mentioned method , which is confined to lamellar distributions , the force at any external point , or at any interior point in an infinitely small crevass perpendicular to the lines of magnetization , is expressed as the resultant of a certain distribution of normal magnetization in an infinitely thin shell coinciding with the surface .

