1 .
" Measurement of the Electrostatic Force produced by a Daniell 's Battery .
" By Professor WILLIAM ?
THOMSON , F.R.S. Received January 21 , 1860 .
In a paper " Oni Trarnsienit Electric Currents , " published in the Philosophical Magazine for June 1853 , 1 described a method for measuring differences of electric potential in .
absolute electrostatic units , which seemed to me the best adapted for obtaining accurate results .
The " absolute electrometer " which I exhibited to the British Association on the occasion of its meeting at Glasgow in 1855 , was constructed for the purpose of putting this method into practice , and , as I then explained , 'was adapted to reduce the indications of an electroscopic * or of a torsion electrometer to absolute measure .
The wanlt of sufficiently constant and accurate instruments of the latter class has long delayed my carrying out of the plans then set forth .
Efforts which I have made to produce electrometers to fulfil certain conditions of senisibility , conivenience , and constancy , for various objects , especially the electrostatic measurement of galvanic forces , and of the differences of potential required to produce sparks in air , under definite conditions , and the observation of natural atmospheric electricity , have enabled me now to make a beginning of absolute determinationis , which I hope to be able to carry out soon in a much more accurate manner .
In the meantime I shall give a slight description of the chief instruments and processes followed , and state the approximate results already obtairned , as these may be made the foundation of various importanit estimates in several departments of electrical science .
The absolute electrometer alluded to above , consists of a plain metallic disc , insulated in a horizontal position , with a somewhat smaller plane metallic disc hung centrally over it , from onie end of the beam of a balanice .
A metal case protects the suspended disc from currents of air , and from irregular electric influences , allowing a light vertical rod , rigidly connected with the ( lise at its lower end , and suspended from the balanice above , to move up and down freely , through an aperture just wide enough not to tou ch it .
In the side of the case there is allother aperture , fhrough which projects anl electrode rigidly conniected with the lower insulated disc .
The upper disc is kept in metallic communication with the case .
In using this instrument to reduce the indications of an electroscopic or torsion electrometer to absoluLte electrostatic measure , the insulated part of the electrometer is kept in metallic communication with the insulated disc , while the cases enclosing the two inistruments are also kept in metallic comimunication with one another .
A charge , either positive or nlegative , is commuinicated to the insulated part of the double apparat'us .
The indication of the tested electrometer is read off , aild at the same time the force required to keep the moveable disc at a stated distance from .
the fixed disc below it , is weighed by the balanlee .
This part of the operation is , as I anticipated , someewaht troublesome , in consequenice of the instability of the equilibriuin , but with a little care it may be managed with conisiderable accuracy .
The planl which I have hitherto followed , has been to limit the play of the arm of the balance to a very small arc , by meatns of firm stops suitably placed , thus allowing a ranige of motion to the upper disc through but a small part of its whole distance from the lower .
A certain weight is put into the opposite scale of the balance , and the indications of the second electrometer are observed when the electric force is just sufficient to draw down the upper disc from resting in its npper position , and again when insufficient , to keep it down with the beam pressed on its lower stop .
This operation is repeated at differenit distances , and thuis no considerable error depending on a want of parallelism between the discs could remain undetected .
It may be remarked that the upper disc is carefully balanieed by means of small weights attached to it , So as to malVe it hang as nearly as possible parallel to the lower disc .
The stem carrying it is graduated to hundredths of an inch ; and by watching it through a telescope at a short distanee , it is easy to observe -1-Lth of an inch of its vertical motion .
I have recently applied this method to reduce to absolute electrostatic measure the indications of an electrometer forming part of a portable apparatus for the observation of atmospheric electricity .
In this instrument a very light bar of aluminium attached at right angles to the middle of a fine l)latinum wire , which is firmly stretched between the inside coatings of two Levdein phials , one occupying an inverted position above the other , experiences and inidicates the electrical force which is the subject of measurement , and which consists of repulsions in contrary directions on its two ends , produiced by two short bars of metal fixed on the two sides of the top of a metal tube , supported by the inside coating of the lower phial .
The amount of the electrical force ( or rather as it should be called in correct mechanical language , couple ) is measured by the angle through which the upper Leyden phial must be turned round an axis coincident with the line of the wire , so as to bring the index to a marked position .
An independently insulatedl metal case , bearing an electrode projecting outwards , to which the body to be tested is applied , surrounds the index and repelling bars , but leaves free apertures above and below , for the wire to pass through it without touching it ; and by other apertures in its sides and top , it allows the motions of the index to be observed , and the Leyden phials to be charged or discharged at pleasure , by means of an electrode applied to one of the fixed bars described above .
Wbihen by means of such an electrode the inside coatings of the Leyden phials are kept connected with the earth , this electrometer beconies a plain repulsion electrometer , on the same principle as Peltier 's , with the exception that the index , supported by a platinum wire instead of on a pivot , is directed by elasticity of torsion instead of by magnetism ; and the electrical effect to be measured is produced by applving the electrified body to a conductor connected with a fixed metal case round the index and repelling , bars , instead of with these coniductors themselves .
This electrometer , beint , of suitable sensibility for direct comparison 2x with the absolute electrometer according to the process described above , is not sufficiently sensitive to measure directly the electrostatic effect of any galvanic battery of fewer than two hundred cells with mnch accuracy .
Not having at the time arrangements for working with a multiple battery of reliable character , I used a second torsion electrometer of a higher degree of sensibility as a mediunm for comparison , and determined the value of its indications by direct reference to a Daniell 's battery of from six to twelve elements in good working order .
This electrometer , in which a light aluminium index , suspended by meanis of a fine glass fibre , kept constantly electrified by means of a light platinum wire hanging down from it and dipping into some sulphuric acid in the bottom of a charged Leyden jar , exhibits the effects of electric force due to a difference of potenltials between two halves of a metallic ring separately insulated in its neighbouLrhood , will be sufficienitly described in another communicationi to the Royal Society .
Slight descriptions of trial instruments of this kind hav-e already beenl published in the Transactions of the Pontifical Academy of Rome * , and in the second edition of Nichol 's Cyclopredia ( article Electricity , Atmospheric ) , 1860 .
I hope soon to have another electrometer on the same genieral principle , but modified from those hitherto made , so as to be more convenient for accurate measurement in terms of constanit units .
In the meantime I find , that , by exercisin , sufficienit care , I call obtain good measuremeents by meanis of the divided ring electrometer of the form described in Nichol 's Cycloptcdia .
In the ordinary use of the portable electrometer , a considerable charge is communicated to the connected inside coatings of the Leydeu phials , and the alunminium index is brought to anl accurately marked position by torsion , while the insulated metal case surrounding it is kept conniected with the earth .
The square root of the reading of the torsioni-head thus obtained measures the potential , to which the inside coatings of the phials have been electrified .
If , now , the metal case referred to is disconnected from the earth and put in connexion with a conductor whose potenitial is to be tested , the sqoare root of the altered reading of the torsion-head required to bring the index to its marked position in the new circumstances mao sures simnilarly the difference between this last potential and that i Accademia Pontificia dei Nuovi Lyncci , February 1857 .
of the inside coatings of the phials .
Hence the excess of the latter square root above the former expresses in degree and in quality ( positive or niegative ) the required potential .
This plan has not only the merit of inidicating the quality of the electricity to be tested , which is of great importance in atmospheric obseivation , but it also afords a muuch higher degree of sensibility thian the instrarient hoas when used as a plaini repulsioni electrometer ; and , on aclouint of this last-mentioned adv , antage , it wras adopted in the comparisons with the divided ring electrometer .
On the other hand , the portable electrometer was used in its least sensitive state , that is to say , with its Leyden phials connected with the earth , when the comparisons with the absolute electrometer were made .
The general result of the weigbhings hitherto rmade , is that when the discs of the absolute electrometer were at a distance of twelnty hundredths of an inch , the number of degrees of torsion in the portable electrometer was 3'229 times the number of grains ' weight required to balance the attractive force ; and the number of degrees of torsion was 7 69 timies the number of grainis ' weight found in other series of experimenits in which the distance between the discs was thirty hundredths .
According to the law ol inverse squares of the distances to which the attraction between two parallel discs is subject when a constant difference of potentials is mainltained between them*n , the force at a distance of 3of an inch would have been ' according to the first of the preceding results , or , according to the second , I of the number of degrees of torsion .
The mean of these is .
or 1 2 ; and we may consider this number as represeniting approximately the value in grains ' weight at J , of an inch distanice between the discs of the absoluite electrometer , corresponlding to one degree of torsion of the portable electrometer .
By comparing the indicattions of the portable electrometer with those of the divided ring electrometer , and by evaluating those of the latter in terms of the electromotive force of a Daniell 's battery charged in .
the usual manner , I find that 284 times the square root of the number of degrees of torsion in the portable electrometer is approximately the number of cells of a Daniell 's battery which would produce an electromotive force ( or , which is the same thing , a difference of potenitials ) equtal to that indicated .
Eence the attraction betweenl the discs of the portable electrometer , if at 1 of an iiich distance , and maintained at a difference of potentials amouniting to that produced by 284 cells , is 12 grain .
The effect of 1000 cells would therefore be to give a force of 14 9 grains , since the force of attraction is proportional to the square of the difference of potentials between the discs .
The diameter of the opposed circular areas between which the attraction observed took place , was 5'86 inchles .
Its area was therefore *187 of a square foot , and therefore the amounit of attraction per square foot , according to the preceding estimate for 1 of an inch distance 0 ~~1 0 and 1000 cells ' difference of potential , is 79'5 grains .
To reduce the statement to consistent units founded on a foot as the uniit of length , we may suppose , instead of 10of an inch , the distance between the discs to be T of a foot .
We coniclude that , with an electromotive force or difference of potentials produiced by 1 000 cells of Daniell 's battery , we find for the force of attraction 55 3 grains per square foot between discs separated to a distance of IWU of a foot , This result differs very much from an estimate I have made according to my theoretical estimate of 2,500,000 British electrom-aornetic units for the electromotive force of a single element , of Daniell 's and Weber 's comparison of electrostatic with electro-magnletic units .
On the other hand , it agrees to a remarkable degree of accuracy with direct observations made for me , during my absenice in Germany , by Mr. Macfarlaiie , in the months of June and July 1856 , on the force of attraction produced by the direct application of a miiniature Daniell 's battery , of different numbers from 93 to 451 of elements , applied to the same absolute electrometer with its discs at '079 of an inch asunder .
These observations gave forces varying , on the whole , very closely according to the square of the number of cells used ; and the mean result reduced according to this law to 1000 cells was 23'4 grains .
Reducing this to the distance I &amp; o of a foot , and dividing by '187 , the area in decimal of a square foot , we find 54'3 grains per square foot at a distance of -9of a foot .
Although the experimenits leading to this result were executed with great care by Mr. Ma , cfarlane , I delayed publishing it because of the great discrepance it presented from the estimate I deduced from WVeber 's measurement , which was publislhed while my preparations were in progress .
I cannot doubt its general correctness now , whenl it is so decidedly confirmed by the electrometric experiments I have just described , which have been executed chiefly by Mr. John Smnith and Mr. John Ferguson , working , in my laboratory with much ability since the month of November .
I am still unable to explain the discrepance , but it may possibly be owing to some miscalculatiol I have made in my deductions fro-m Weber 's result .
Glasgow College , Jan. 18 , 1860 .
POSTSC1rrP , April 12 , 1860 .
I have since found that I had inadvertelntly misinterpreted Weber 's statement in the ratio of 2 to 1 .
I had always , as it appears most natural to me to do , regarded the transference of negative electricity in one direction and of positive electricity in the other direction , as identical agencies , to which in our ignorance as to the real nature of electricity we may apply indiscriminately the one expressioni or the other , or a combination of the two .
Hence I have always regarded a current of unit strength as a current in which the positive or vitreous electricity flows in one direction at the rate of a unit of electricity per unit of time ; or the negative or resinous electricity in the other direction at the same rate ; or ( according to the infinitely improbable hypothesis of two electric fluids ) the vitreous electricity flows in one direction at any rate less than a unit per second , and the resinous in the opposite direction at a rate equal to the remainder of the unit per second .
I have only recently remarked that Weber 's expressions are not only adapted to the hypothesis of two electric fluids , but that they also reckon as a current of unit strength , what I should have called a current of strength 2 , namely a flow of vitreous electricity in one direction at the rate of a unit of vitreous electricity per unit of time , and of the resinous electricity in the other direction sinmultaneously , at the rate of a unit of resinous electricity per unit of time .
Weber 's result as to the relation between electrostatic and electromagnetic units , when correctly interpreted , I now find would be in perfect accordance with my own results given above , if the electromotive force of a single element of the Daniell 's battery used were 2,140,000 British electro-maguetic units instead of 2,500,000 , as accordingo , to my thermo-dynamic estimiiate .
This is as good an agreemncit as could be expected when the difficulties of the investigations , and the unieertainity which still exists as to the true measure of the electromotive force of the Daniiell 's elemnient are considered .
It must inideed be remarked that the electromotive force of Daniell 's battery var'ies by two or three or more per cent. with variations of the soluitiois used ; that it Lvaries also very sensibly with temperature ; and that it seem-s also to be dependenit , to some extenit , on circumstances not hitherto elucidated .
A thorough examnination of the electromotive force of Daniell 's and other forms of galvanic battery , is an ob)ject of high imoportance , which it is to be hoped will soon be attained .
Until this has beeni done , at least for Daniell 's battery , the resuilts of the preceding paper may be regarded as having about as much accuracy as is desirable .
I may state therefore , in .
colnclusioni , that thc average electromotive force per cell of the Daniell 's batteries which I have uised , produces a difference of potentials* amounting to *0021 in British electrostatic measure .
This statement is perfectly equivalent to thic following ill mDore familiar terms : Onie thousand cells of Dainiell 's battery , with its two poles connected by wires with two parallel plates of metal TUth of a foot apart and each a square foot in area , produces an electrical attraction equal to the weight of 55 grains .
- &gt; Sec ? ?
10 , 11 of Appendix to the following conimuittnication ,

