V. " Further Observations on the Structure and Affinities of Eozoon Canadense .
" In a Letter to the President .
By WILLIAM B. CAaPENTER , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. Received May 9,1867 .
University of London , May 9th , 1867 .
When , on the 14th of December 1864 , I addressed you on the subject of the remarkable discovery which had been recently made in Canada , and submitted by Sir William Logan to myself for verification , of a fossil belonging to the Foraminiferal type , occurring in large masses in the Serpentine-limestones intercalated among Gneissic and other rocks in the Lower Laurentian formation , and therefore long anterior in Geological time to the earliest traces of life previously observed , no doubts had been expressed as to the organic nature of this body , which had received the designation Eozoon Canadense .
The announcement was soon afterwards made , that the Serpentine Marble of Connemara , employed as an ornamental marble by builders under the name of " Irish Green , ' presented structural characters sufficiently allied to those of the Laurentian Serpentines of Canada , to justify its being referred to the same origin .
An examination of numerous decalcified specimens of this rock led me to the conclusion , that although the evidences of its organic origin were by no means such as to justify , or even to suggest , such a doctrine , if the structure of the Canadian LEozoon had not been previously elucidated , yet that the very exact correspondence in size and mode of aggregation between the Serpentine-granules of the Connemara Marble and those of the ' acervuline ' portion of the Canadian , was sufficient to justify in behalf of the one the claim which had been freely conceded in regard to the other .
In the following summnler , however , it was announced in the ' Reader ' ( June 10 , 1865 ) by Professors King and Rowney of Queen 's College , Galway , that having applied themselves to the study of the Serpentine Marble of Connemnara with a full belief in its organic origin , they had been gradually led to the conviction that its structure was the result of chemical and physical agencies alone , and that the same explanation was applicable to the supposed _Eozoon CaiZadense of the Laurentian Serpentines .
This view was afterwards fully set forth in a Paper " On the so-called Eozoonal Rock , " read at the Geological Society on the 10th of January 1866 , and published ( with additions ) in the Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society for August 1866 .
The following is their own Summary of their conclusions ( p. 215):- " It has been seen ( 1 ) that the ' chamber-casts ' or granules of serpentine are more or less simulated by chondrodite , coccolite , pargasite , &amp;c. , also by the botryoidal configurations common in Permian Mlagnesian Limestone ; ( 2 ) that the ' intermediate skeleton1 ' is closely represented , both in chemical composition and other conditions , by the matrix of the above and other minerals ; ( 3 ) that the 'proper wall ' is structurally identical with the asbestiform layer which frequently invests the grains of chondroditethat , instead of belonging to the skeleton , as must be the case on the eozoonal view , it is altogether independent of that part , and forms , on the contrary , an integral portion of the serpentine constituting the 'chamber-casts , ' under the allomorphic form of chrysotile , and that perfectly genuine specimens of it , completely simulating casts of separated nummuline tubules , occur in true fissures of the serpentinegranules ; ( 4 ) that the 'canal-systenm ' is analogous to the iimbedded crystallizations of native silver and other similarly conditioned mineras , also to the coralloids imbedded in Permian Miagnesian Limestone ; that its typical Grenville form occurs as metaxite , a chemically identical mineral imbedded in saccharoidal calcite ; ( 5 ) that the type examples of ' casts of stolon-passages ' are isolated crystals apparently ofpyrosclerite .
Furthermore , considering that there has been a complete failure to explain the characters of the so-called internal casts of the 'pseudopodial tbulles ' and o other ' passages ' on .
ordinary mechanical or chemical infiltration , also bearing in mind the significant fact that the 'intermediate skeleton , ' in Irish and other varieties of eozoonal rock , contains modified examples of the ' definite shapes ' more or less resembling the crystalline aggregations and prismatic lumps in primary saccharoidatl marbles-that eozoonal structure is only folnd in metamorphic rocks belonging to widely separated geological systems , never in their unaltered sedimentary deposits , -taking all these points into consideration , also the arguments and other evidences contained in the present memoir , we feel the conclusion to be fully established , that every one of the specialities which have been diagnosed for Eoosoon Cazade , nse is solely and purely of crystalline origin : in short , we hold , withlout the least reservation , that from every available standing point-foraminiferal , mineralogical , chemical , and geological the opposite view has been shownv to be utterly untenable .
" Considering that the Fo'ra.mhiniferal characters of Eozoon CGanadense had been unhesitatingly accepted by all those zoologists , Continental as well as British , whose special acquaintance with the group gave weight to their opinion , it miight have been .
prudentt , as well as becoming , on the part of the Galway Professors , to express themselves somewhat less confidently in regard to its purely miineral origin .
The case they made out would not have lost any of its real strength , if they had simply put forward their facts as affording valid grounds for questioning the received doctrine .
And a way of escape would have been left for them , if the progress of research should happen to bring to light conclusive evidence on the other side .
Although such conclusive evidence is now producible , it may be well for ime briefly to point out what I regard as the ffindamental fallacies in the argument of Professors King and .
Rowney .
In the first place , the Serpentine-MIarble of Connemara , on which their investigations had been chiefly conducted , is admitted by every one who has examined it to have undergone a considerable amlount of metamorphic change .
To myself , as well as to Professors King and Rowney , the evidence which it presents of the operation of chemical and physical agencies is most obvious and conclusive ; whilst the evidence of its organic origin rests entirely on its partial analogy to the eozoonal rock of Canada .
Hene an entire surrender might be made of the organic hypothesis as regards the Connemara marble , withou-t in the leastdegree invalidating the claim of the eozoonal rock of Canada to an organic origin .
Bu-t , on the other hand , if the latter claim can be sustained , it may be fairly extended to the " Irish Green , " should the evidence of similarity be found sulicienit to justify such an extension ; since it must be admiitted by every Petrologist , that no amount of purely mineral arrangement in a Metamorphic rock can disprove its claiml to Organic origin , if that claim can be shown to be justified by distinct traces , in other parts of the same formation , of organisms adequate to its production .
The Carboniferous Limestone , various members of the Oolitic and Cretaceous formations , and the Hippurite and Nuiummulitic Limestones , all exhibit in parts an entire absence of organic structure , which is yet so distinct elsewhere , as to justify the generalization that their materials have been originally separated from the ocean-waters by animal agency .
And it is well known to those who have studied the changes which recent Coral-formations have undergone when upraised above the sea-level , that a complete conversion of a mass of Coral into a sub-crystalline Limestone not distinguishable from ordinary Carboniferous Limestone , may take place under circumstances in no way extraordinary .
It is , therefore , upon the character of the Serpentine-Limestone of Canada , not upon the nature of the Connemara Marble , that the question of organic origin entirely turns ; and , as I have elsewhere shown in detail , the hypothesis of Professors King and Rowney altogether fails to account for the combination of phenomena which the former presents , whilst the accordance of that combination with the idea of its Organic origin ( a very moderate allowance being made for the effects of metamorphic change ) is such as to establish the same kind of probability in its favour , as that which we derive in the case of the Human origin of the " flint implements " from the cumulative evidence of their succession of fractured surfaces , or in the case of the chemical composition of the sun from the precise correspondence between certain dark lines in the solar spectrum and groups of bright lines produced in a dark spectrum by the combustion of certain known metals .
I may stop to point out , however , that Professors King and Rowney do not attempt to offer any feasible explanation of the fundamental fact of the regular alternation of lamelle of Calcareous and Siliceous minerals , often amounting to fifty or more of each kind , extending through a great range of area ; nor of the fact that not only is this arrangement the same , though the siliceous mineral may be Serpentine in one place , Pyroxene in another , or Loganite in another , whilst the calcareous may be Calcite in one part , and Dolomite in another , -but that these variations may occur in one and the same specimen , the structural arrangement being continuous throughout .
And in what they state of the peculiar lamella forming the proper wall of the chambers , which I have designated the " nummuline layer , " they have fallen into errors of fact so remarkable , that I can only account for them by the belief that when their paper was written they knew this layer only by decalcified specimens , and had never seen it in thin transparent sections .
For they describe it as composed of parallel fibres of chrysotile packed together without any intermediate substyance ; whereas I have distinctly proved that the siliceous fibres are im* Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society , August , 1866 .
bedded in a calcareous matrix ; which I therefore feel justified in regarding as a finely tubulated Nummuline shell , of which the tubuli that were originally occupied by pseudopodia have been permeated by siliceous infiltration .
So , again , while asserting that by no conceivable process could the animal substance originally occupying these tubuli have been replaced by siliceous minerals , they have entirely ignored the fact stated by me , that this very replacement has taken place in recent specimlens in my possession , -a fact on the basis of which the reconstruction of the animal of Eozoon proposed by Dr. Dawson and myself securely rests .
The question may now , I believe , be regarded as conclusively settled by the recent discovery , in a sedimentary limestone of the Lower Laurentian formation at Tudor in Canada , of a specimen of Eozoon presenting characters that cannot , in the opinion of the most experienced Palmeontologists and Mineralogists , be accounted for on any other hypothesis than that of its organic origin .
For in the first place , the occurrence of a calcareous framework or skeleton in a matrix of sedimentary limestone , which also fills up its interspaces , altogether excludes the hypothesis that this framework might be the product of any kind of pseudomorphic arrangement produced by the separation of calcareous and siliceous minerals from a solution containing both .
And , secondly , this specimen exhibits that which had not previously been distinctly seen in any other , viz. , a distinctly limited contour , formed by the curving downwards and closing-in of the septa , in a manner as perfect and characteristic as the closing-in of the successive chambers of any polythalalnous shell .
I believe that no Paleonttologist familiarwith Palmozoic fossils would have hesitated to pronounce this specimen a Fossil Coral allied to Stromnatopora , if it had occurred in a Silurian Limestone .
That this specimen , though differing greatly in appearance from the ordinary serpentinous Eozoon , really represents that organism , is shown not merely by the general arrangement of the calcareous lamellc , but by their minute structure .
This , it is true , is far less characteristically seen in thin sections microscopically examined , than it is in the specimens whose cavities have been filled up by Serpentine ; the texture of which is often so marvellously little changed , as to have all the appearance of recent shell-substance .
But the alteration which the shelly layers have iundergone in this specimen , is precisely paralleled by that which I have been accustomed to find in the best-preserved specimens of other organic structures contained in the more ancient Limestones .
And there are still distinctly-recognizable traces of the canal-system imper .
fectly injected with black substance , which correspond with those of the ordinary Serpentinous Bozoon .
For the imperfection of the specimen in this respect , however , full compensation is made in the perfect preservation of the canal-system int B imall fragment of Eosoon long since obsurved by Dr , .
Uawson in a crystallille lim-estone at Madoc .
This specimein having been placed in my hands by Sir William Logan , with permission to treat it in any way that should enable e to make a thorough , examine ation of it , I have sueceeede i in ning i it most complete and beautinful examples of the canalsystem , presenting varieties o ' size and distribution exactly parallelto those with which I am .
fat2miliar in tnle Serpentine-specimens .
Now as there is noti in the M adoc , any more ltan in the udo specimen , any such coiibination of different mineral s has a been supposed by Professors King and lBowney to 1have given origin to.the arborescent forms of the canalsystemn of Eozoonl ( which they have likened to moss-agate or crystallized silver ) , there can be no longer any reasonable ground for disputing the essential similarity of this canarl-sstem to that first described by iyself in alcarGi.ncc~ , with rwhich it v:a"s originally compared by Dr. Dawson : ' .
The extension of the inquiry into the character of the Serpentine limlestones intercalated among ' the G-neissic and other rocks of Laurentian age in various parts of Europe , has brought to light such numerous examples of eozoonal structure , more or less distinctly preserved , as to afford strong grounds for the conclusion t , , at this org anism was very generally diffused at that epoch , and performed emulc the same part in raising up solid structu1es i ; the waters of t. eo cea on , that the Coralforming Zoopbytes perfoir at ' the presnt ime .
I had lmyself examined before the close of 1865 specimiens of Ophilcaicite fraoms Coslha Lipa in Boh.emi and n tfro tih e elhigo r hoou d ( o a in w i.ch an eozoonal structuree was dis tinctly traceabele ; nd carly in 1.866 a more extended selies was a transmitted to inm th'iol:h Sir C. Lyvell from Dr. Giimbel , the G-overnment GeologTis of Bavaria 'A ii en wich I was able to trace a continuous gradatioon 0fou0 specimenss .
in whiGicll the eozo , onlal str-uctre was dlistint , to Otliers inchl if i i ; ever existed , it had been completely obscured by1 subsel , quen'ti- , etamoerphis.in .
The re sultsi of a very car eful and conmplete exami'niatlcn of th lie )plicaleites of Bavatria by Dr. Giimbel himlself has been colmmunict ; e to t3e c-..o Academy of MI unic ?
at .
Apearances of the saime char , elof , e are e presented by a seri-s of specimenus of t Se rpetitinous limestones friLom t4 h iie I pii litve ss of Scandinaviia , kindly transmi -ted to m ) by Prof Lr ovn .
i vei.nCure to hope that tei forcgoi.g r , , o , f t.e present aspect ofthlis subject will be of interest to tvohe Fellows of the Eoyal Society .
I say the pei et , as-pe , e iea .
se se e ll 'rongly cnc v in ed tl'ta we are at ipresent oilly at te beginni:g ou f o ' i olede of tahis 'nd oth ancie-t types of F oramin-ifera1 structure ; and that careful search .
in promising loealities will bring to light many wondcleris now lS-ying unsuspected in the vast atggregiate of pre-SiurPian strata , ''A full description of thflse ; spcimens by Dr. Dlawsoin with a notice of their stratigraphical position by Sir illiamn Loggan , has been read at the Geological Society on the 8th of 3May , 1867 .
t " Ueber das V orkoammen von Eozoon im ostbaverischen Ur-gebirge ; " aus d. jit ; zirigsd bei.r dc , Ac , tad , d , W. in Miimolien .
1866 , i ; 1 ,

