X. Appendix to Mr. William Henry 's Paper , on the Quantity of Gases absorbed by Water , at dierent Temperatures , and under different Pressures .
( See Page s9 ) .
SINCE my Paper was printed , I have found that the numbers assigned in it , as indicating the quantities taken up by water , of some of the more absorbable , and of all the less absorbable gases , are rather below the truth .
The accuracy of these numbers I was led to doubt , by a suspicion that due attention had not always been paid , in my former experiments , to the quality of the unabsorbed residuum .
For , the theory which Mr. DALTON has suggested to me on this subject , and which appears to be confirmed by my experiments , is , that the absorption of gases by water is purely a mechanical effect , and that its amount is exactly proportional to the density of the gas , considered abstractedly from any other gas with which it may accidentally be mixed .
Conformably to this theory , if the residuary gas contain - , I , or any other proportion , of foreign gas , the quantity absorbed by water will be - , i , &amp;c. short of the maximum .
The proof of these propositions would lead me into a minuteness of detail , not suited to the present occasion ; I therefore hasten to communicate the results of my latest experiments .
The report which I have already given , of the quantity of CARBONIC ACID GAS , absorbed under the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere , I find no reason to correct ; but , of SULPHURETTED HYDROGEN GAS , I have efccte a larger absorption than the one before stated ; and have repeatedly observed its amount to be 1o6 or io8 by loo measures of water , at 60 ?
of FAHRENHEIT , which temperature is to be understood in all the following experiments .
Of several experiments on the absorption of NITROUS OXIDE , I take the following , as a fair example of the whole .
I agitated , at three several times , 1175 measures of nitrous oxide , with 1320 measures of water ; 1025 parts of gas disappeared , and the unabsorbed remainder ( 15o ) contained 15 of foreign admixtures .
It follows , that ioo parts of water had taken up 77.6 of nitrous oxide ; and , after adding to these the diminution of absorption occasioned by the impurity of the residuum , it may be inferred , that 1oo parts of water would absorb 86 of absolutely pure nitrous oxide .
With respect to the remaining gases , I have been prevented , by urgent professional engagements , from examining the quantity of each , absorbable under similar circumstances , except in the instances of oxygenous , azotic , and hydrogenous gases .
The results of these experiments are comprised in the following Table .
The first column shows the quantity of gas which 1oo parts of water , at 60 ?
, have actually absorbed ; the second , the quantity which ought to be taken up , provided the residue were in a state of absolute purity .
In the example of nitrous gas alone , the estimated is less than the actual absorption ; because a small portion of this gas loses its aerial form , by union with the oxygenous gas , from which water cannot be entirely freed .
freed TABLE showing the Quantity of each Gas absorbed by 1oo measures of water , at 6o ? .
Actual Absorption .
Inferred Absorption .
Nitrous gas 55 Oxygenous gas 55 3s 3.7 Phosphuretted hydrogen gas Gaseous oxide of carbon Carburetted hydrogen gas Azotic gas Hydrogenous gas 2.14 2.01 1.40 '.47 1.53 1.53:1X61 ; III .
Experiments on the Quantity of Gases absorbed by Water , at different Temperatures , and under different Pressures .
By Mr. William Henry .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K. B. P. R. S. Read December 23 , i802 , THOUGH the solubility of an individual gas in water forms , generally , a part of its chemical history , yet this property has been overlooked , in the examination of several species of the class of aeriform substances .
The carbonic acid , indeed , is the only gas whose relation to water has been an object of much attention ; and , at a very early period of its history , Mr. CAVENDISH , in the course of inquiries , the results of which were the groundwork of the most important subsequent discoveries , ascertained , with peculiar care , the proportion of carbonic acid gas condensible in water , at the temperature of 55 ?
of FAHRENHEIT .
Dr. PRIESTLEY also , about the same period , directed his attention to the saturation of water with fixed air , and contrived a simple and effectual mode of obtaining this impregnation .
His apparatus , afterwards , gave way to the more manageable one of Dr. NOOTH ; and this , in its turn , has been superseded by the improved mode of condensing , into water , many times its bulk of various gases , invented and practised by several chemical artists , ( as well as by myself , ) both in this country and abroad .
The influence of pressure , in accomplishing this strong impregnation , was first , I believe , suggested by Dr. PRIESTLEY .
In an exhausted receiver , " that most ingenious philosopher observes , " Pyrmont water will actually boil , by the copious discharge of its air ; and I do not doubt , therefore , that by " means of a condensing engine , water might be much more " highly impregnated with the virtues of the Pyrmont spring .
" Before describing my experiments on the effects of additional pressure , in saturating water with gases , it will be necessary to state the results of others , that were previously expedient , to determine the quantity of each gas combinable with water , at a given temperature , and under the ordinary weight of the atmosphere .
In a few instances , also , it was deemed proper to ascertain the influence of different temperatures , over the condensation of gases in water .
SECTION I. ON THE QUANTITY OF GASES ABSORBED BY WATER , UNDER THE USUAL PRESSURE OF THE ATMOSPHERE .
In order to attain considerable minuteness in observing the proportion of gases absorbed by water , an apparatus was employed , of which the following is a description .
The vessel A ( Plate I. Fig. i ) is of glass , about 2 inches diameter , and 4q ' inches long .
It is graduated into cubical inches , and quarter inches ; and furnished at the top with a brass cap , into which a cock a is screwed .
To the lower aperture , a copper tube C is cemented , which is bent at a right angle , the leg nearest the vessel being carried downwards , and furnished with a cock b. B is a glass tube , of about inch bore , * Experiments on Air , arranged and methodized , Vol. .
p. 5 1 bent at a right angle , and graduated , from a given point , into hundredth parts of a cubical inch .
It is attached to the copper pipe , by a tube of Indian rubber D , over which is a covering of leather , forming a joint , which admits of the vessel A being briskly agitated .
When the apparatus is used , it is first filled with quicksilver ; a transfer bottle of elastic gum , furnished with a cock , and containing water of a known temperature , is screwed on ; and a communication is opened , through the cocks , between the bottle and the glass vessel .
The lower cock b is then opened , through which the mercury runs out , while its place is supplied by a quantity of water from above , measurable by the scale on A. This transfer is removed , and another containing gas being substituted , a measured quantity of gas is admitted in a similar manner .
Strong agitation is now applied , by means of the joint D ; and mercury is poured into the tube B , to supply the descent occasioned by the absorption in A ; its level being exactly preserved in both legs of the syphon , both at the commencement and close of the experiment .
The quantity of mercury required for this purpose , indicates precisely the amount of the gas absorbed .
The only advantage of this apparatus over a cylindrical jar , inverted in the usual way over mercury , is , that by means of the tube B , very minute degrees of absorption may be measured , which would scarcely be perceived in a wide vessel .
For the more absorbable gases , I found this instrument to answer perfectly well ; but , for ascertaining the solubility of those which are taken up by water in only small proportion , I preferred one of different construction .
It consisted simply of a glass vessel , of the capacity of 571 cubical inches , and shaped as in Fig. 2 .
At a was cemented a cock , provided with a screw ; 3 i and the lower cock b was of glass , accurately ground in .
The vessel was then filled with water which had been long boiled ; a lifting valve was screwed on a , the cock being open ; and the vessel was placed under the receiver of an air pump , where it was kept for some time , the pump being occasionally worked , as long as any air bubbles could be seen to arise .
The gas under examination was next admitted from an elastic bottle , the cock b being opened , and a measured quantity of water let out .
The gas and water were then violently agitated together ; and the cock b opened under mercury , which ascended into the vessel .
The agitation was still continued , observing to preserve the same level of mercury without as within the vessel ; and , when it rose no higher , the ascent was noted by means of the graduated scale .
The quantity of mercury that had entered the vessel , indicated the amount of absorption that had ensued .
It might , however , be objected , that the water would acquire air again , while poured into the vessel ; and I therefore sometimes used large glass globes , having long necks , accurately graduated .
These globes , being of very thin glass , were filled with boiling water , and inverted instantly in a trough of quicksilver .
When the water became cold , the mercury was , of course , found to have risen partly into the vessel .
This portion was displaced by a measured quantity of gas ; and the absorption was denoted by the ascent of the mercury in the graduated neck .
The water employed in these experiments was boiled , during several hours , in a tin vessel having an aperture barely sufficient to allow the egress of the steam , and poured , while boiling hot , into glass vessels , which were corked , and tightly tied over with bladder .
An equable temperature was produced in the water , mercury , and gas , except when above 85 ?
, by regulating that of the room in which the experiments were made ; and the glass vessel , during agitation , was carefully guarded from the warmth of the hand .
The agitation was continued , till it appeared , by the scale , to produce no further effect ; and , in the absorption of difficultly condensible gases , was repeated at intervals , during a space of from twelve to twenty-four hours .
Alterations of the barometer were always observed ; and the residuary gas measured , or estimated , at a pressure of 29inches .
i. Absorption of Carbonic Acid Gas by Water .
That the temperature of water influences the proportion of carbonic acid which it is capable of absorbing , is already known as a general fact ; * but the exact amount of this influence has not , I believe , been hitherto ascertained .
In the course of a series of experiments to determine it with precision , I was surprised by obtaining results which differed considerably from each other , at the same temperature of the gas and water ; when both were , in different experiments , of like purity ; and when the barometer had the same elevation .
Of the cause of these variations I was not aware , till my friend Mr. DALTON suggested , that they probably depended on the variable amount of the residues ; and , on repeating the experiments , with different proportions between the gas and the water , this suggestion was filly confirmed .
Thus , when two measures of carbonic acid gas were agitated with one measure of water , the absorption was considerably greater than when , to the same quantity of water , a less proportion of gas was used .
The cause of this diminished absorption , seems to be connected with the proportion of common air contained in the unabsorbed residuum ; for , besides the unavoidable contamination of the gas employed , with a minute portion of the air of the vessel used for its extrication , a small quantity will always be liberated from the water , whatever pains have been taken to deprive it of air , by previous long boiling , exposure under the air pump , or both in succession .
That this is the true explanation , appears also , from the result of adding to the gas a proportion of common air .
Thus , when , at the temperature of 55 ?
, ao measures of carbonic acid are agitated with o1 of water , at least lo measures of gas are taken up ; but , from a mixture of o2 measures of carbonic acid with o1 of common air , 1o parts of water take only 6 of carbonic acid , or 4 less than in the former instance .
An analogous fact was observed by Dr. BROWNRIGG , * who remarked that gas does not escape from the water which it impregnates , unless the water be in contact with air : for , when the Pouhon water was excluded from air , but , at the same time , liberty was given for its gas to arise into an empty bladder , the gas did not spontaneously separate from the water ; but , on the contrary , remained united with it , when exposed to the greatest heat of our climate .
When the impregnated water , he observes , is thus excluded from air , the gas will escape very slowly , at any temperature less than 11lo of FAHRENHEIT , although such heat be sufficient for the distillation of water ; nor can it be wholly expelled by a heat of 160 ?
or 170 ?
, continued two hours .
But it is well known , that water saturated with carbonic acid gives up its gas rapidly , when freely exposed to the atmosphere .
See Dr. BRowNRIGG'S Paper on the Pouhon Water , Phil. Trans. Vol. LXIV .
In fixing the proportion of carbonic acid absorbed , it is therefore necessary to note the quantity of residuum , as is done in the following table .
Absorbed by Tempera .
Measures of Measures of Quantity xoo inches Experiment .
' ture .
water .
gas .
absorbed .
Residue .
of water .
1 55 13 32 14 i8 o08 2 85 13 32 11 21 .
84 3 55 13 24 14 10 108 a4 55 o1 15 10 5 100 5 55 20 20 18 2 9o 6 55 19 19 16 3 84 7 .
85 19 19 316 70 8 1o 10o 20 6 14 60 9 110 20 20 9 11 45 Since the above table was drawn up , I have been gratified by remarking that , in the experiments of Mr. CAVENDISH , similar variations in the quantities absorbed , were produced by the variable amount of the residua ; as will appear from the following deductions from his experiments .
At the temperature of 55 ? .
1 .
When the gas absorbed was to the residue as 1oo to 164 , ioo cubical inches of water took up 116 2 .
When the absorbed gas was to the residue as ioo to 16 , loo inches of water took up 107 3 .
The absorbed gas being to the residue as ioo to lo , i oo parts of water absorbed 1o 4 .
The absorption being to the residue as ioo to i- , 1oo parts of water took up 95g The quality of the residuum , I only ascertained in experiments 5 and 6 of the preceding table .
In experiment 5 , the residuary two measures contained 7 } per cent. of common air , Fe , or o.15 of a measure .
But , of those,.13 existed previously in the 2o measures of carbonic acid gas ; and the 20 measures of water had , therefore , only given up.02 of a measure , or about itof its bulk .
I apprehend , however , that the whole of the common air was not , even thus , extricated from the water .
In experiment 6 , the 3 residuary measures contained of common air .
To judge of the influence of temperature , it is essential that the experiments compared should be on similar proportions of gas and water .
Thus , from a comparison of experiment i and 2 , it appears , that about 2of the whole bulk absorbable at 55 , is the diminution of the quantity of absorption produced by each elevation of 10 ?
of temperature ; and the same inference follows from various other experiments , the results of which I have thought it needless to state.* 2 .
Sulphuretted Hydrogen Gas .
One hundred parts of water , at 55 ?
of temperature , absorb 86 parts of this gas , obtained from sulphuret of iron and dilute sulphuric acid , a residue being left , equal in bulk to the gas absorbed .
At 85 ?
, under similar circumstances , the same quantity absorbs 78 .
3 .
Nitrous Oxide .
At 45 ?
, oo cubic inches of water take up 50 of nitrous oxide ; and , at 70 ?
, the same quantity takes up only 44 .
According to Mr. DAVY , in whose experiments , from his intimate ?
During the absorption of carbonic acid by water , the gas and water having previously the same temperature , there is an extrication of caloric , sufficient to raise the temperature of the water between and X of a degree of FAHREN HEIT .
The same effect is produced by the condensation of sulphuretted hydrogen , and nitrous oxide gases , though less apparently .
To perceive this phenomenon , considerable quantities of gas ald water should be used .
knowledge of this gas , and skill in its preparation , I place more confidence than in my own , ioo inches of water at 45 ?
, take up 54 of nitrous oxide , the residuum being about one half the volume of the gas absorbed .
4 .
Less absorbable Gases .
The experiments with those gases which are absorbed only in sparing proportion by water , I could not conveniently make at more than one temperature ; nor , indeed , did the object appear to me worthy of the time and attention which such a repetition of them would have required .
Of the accuracy of the following , however , I satisfied myself , by repeating each two or three times ; and with gases of the greatest attainable purity .
1oo cubic inches of water , at 60 ?
, absorb , Of nitrous gas 5 inches .
Oxygenous gas -63 Phosphuretted hydrogen ditto 2.14 Gaseous oxide of carbon 2,01 Carburetted hydrogen gas 1.40 Azotic gas.20 Hydrogen gas.o8 The solubility of atmospherical air cannot easily be ascertained ; for , as I shall hereafter show , in a memoir on the expulsion of gases from water by each other , air is decomposed by agitation with boiled water , its oxygenous portion being absorbed in preference .
From the statements given by various philosophers , ( theAbb6 NOLLET , Drs. HALES , PRIESTLEY , and PEARSON , ) of the quantity of air separable from water of different kinds , by heat or a diminished pressure , I expected that a much larger proportion of the gases constituting the atmosphere would have been absorbed by water , than the above numbers assign .
It is to be recollected , however , that no method hitherto discovered detaches from water all its air ; and the unknown quantity remaining in it , after these modes of separation have been employed , is to be added to that with which a given volume of water can be artificially impregnated .
Dr. PEARSON , in his enquiries into the nature of the gas obtained by passing electric discharges through water , was at great pains to purify the subject of his experiments from air , by boiling and a powerful air pump ; but he always found , that after the full effect of both these methods , electricity liberated a further , and not an inconsiderable , portion of air.* Common spring water may , I think , be fairly taken as a specimen of water fully charged with atmospherical air ; and , with the view of determining the quantity and kind of gases extricated from it , I made the following experiment .
A glass globe , of the capacity of 117-2 cubical inches , was filled with water fresh from the well .
To its mouth was adapted a curved and stoppered tube , which held of an inch ; and this was also filled with water .
The globe was then placed in a vessel of brine , which was kept boiling between six and seven hours ; and the gases were received over mercury .
Their quantity and quality were as follows .
Consisted of Proportion of Cub. inches , L_. .
-_- ) Oxygen gas in the No. Carbonic acid .
Air .
residuary air .
1 1.25 0.50 0.75 o.20 2 1.25 0.85.o40 o.i6 1.63 1.23 0.40 o.16 4 0.50 0.49 o.o0 lost by acci--------dent , 4.63 3.07 1.56 Air remaining in } the bent tube J '75 5.38 , total gas from ii7 7 inches of water .
But , 4-i inches of water were expelled , owing to the expansiot by heat .
Therefore , 117i 41 == 113 inches of water , gave 5.38 inches of gas ; and loo inches , consequently , gave 4.76 , of which 3.38 were carbonic acid , and 1.38 atmospherical air .
Hence , the water afforded about 7its bulk of atmospherical air , and -2o of a mixture of gases .
In this estimate , the gas remaining in the tube is reckoned as carbonic acid , which may be allowed , since the portion last obtained held only -o its bulk of common air .
SECTION II .
ON THE INFLUENCE OF PRESSURE IN PROMOTING THE ABSORPTION OF GASES ; AND THE DESCRIPTION OF AN APPARATUS FOR EXHIBITING THIS PHENOMENON .
For the purpose of determining the ratio between the addi ; tion of pressure and the increased absorption of gases by water , I employed the apparatus , with some addition , which has been already described .
The tube B was lengthened at pleasure , with the view of obtaining , by a column of mercury , any additional pressure that might be required .
The vessel A , Fig. i , was then filled completely with mercury , which rose to its corresponding level in the tube B. A given quantity of water , of a known temperature , and afterwards a measured volume of gas , were transferred into the vessel , in the mode already described ; and , as the mercury , by opening the cock b , was brought to the same level in both legs of the syphon , the gas , it is evident , must have been under the ordinary weight of the atmosphere .
A quantity of mercury was next poured into the leg B , sufficient to form a column 28 inches higher than the level of the mercury in A , after this addition ; and the bulk of the gas was again noted .
This was found to be , pretty exactly , I , , &amp;c. of.~~~~~ y , 39 the space occupied before , when one , two , or more additional atmospheres were applied .
Brisk agitation was now used , as long as any absorption took place ; and , into the tube B an as~sistant poured mercury , so as to preserve in it the excess of 28 inches above the level of the mercury in A. The degree of absorption was known by the scale on A , or , more accurately , by the quantity of mercury required to support the elevation of 28 inches in B. By lengthening the column in B to 56 inches , the pressure of two additional atmospheres was obtained ; and this was the utmost extent to which the addition of weight could be carried , without forcing the joint at D. When the cock b was opened , and the column in each leg thus suddenly fell to the same level , the water , which had been previously charged with gas , under a pressure of three atmospheres , effervesced violently ; but some time elapsed before the additional gas , forced in by compression , was wholly evolved .
These appearances are very striking and amusing ; and are well calculated for exhibition in a chemical lecture .
The apparatus , however , I have no doubt , may be greatly improved ; but , at the distance of nearly 200 miles from the metropolis , I was under the necessity of using such an one as could be constructed by my own hands .
A considerable improvement in the construction of the apparatus , which would obviate the expediency of the flexible tube D , would be the following .
To the lower neck of the vessel A , Fig. i , let a cap and cock , with a female screw , be cemented ; and let the upper end of the pipe C be terminated by a cock with a male screw .
Introduce the gas and water , in the manner already described ; apply the increased pressure ; and , having shut the two additional cocks , unscrew them from each other .
40 The vessel A will thus be detached , and agitation may be easily applied ; after which , again screw it into its former place , and , on opening the two .
cocks , the mercury will rise in the vessel A. Supply the descent in B by fresh mercury , and proceed as before , repeating alternately the pressure and agitation , as long as any further absorption takes place .
A further amendment of the apparatus , would consist in the substitution of cocks of some other metal than brass , which , however perfect at first , are always injured by the repeated action of the mercury .
If cocks of glass could be ground sufliciently tight , metal caps with screws might be cemented to them .
For observing the increased absorption of less condensible gases , I found it necessary to substitute a vessel of larger size than A , and of the capacity of at least 50 cubical inches .
It is represented by the dotted lines in Fig. i , and was furnished with a cock and screw at c. As it would have been troublesome to have filled so large a vessel entirely with quicksilver , it was filled with boiled water , with the exception of a quantity of quicksilver rather exceeding the bulk of the gas employed .
The gas was admitted , as usual , from a transfer bottle , the mercury which it replaced escaping through the cock b. The increased pressure was next applied ; and the experiment conducted as beFore , except that the agitation was much longer continued .
The results of a series of at least fifty experiments , on carbonic acid , sulphuretted hydrogen gas , nitrous oxide , oxygenous and azotic gases , with the above apparatus , establish the following general law : that , under equal circzmsta:ces of temperature , water takes up , in all cases , the samze volume of condtnsed gas as of gas under ordinary pressure .
But , as the spaces occupied by every gas are inversely as the compressing force , it follows , that water takes up , of gas condensed by one , two , or more additional atmospheres , a quantity which , ordinarily conpressed , would be equal to twice , thrice , &amp;c. the volume absorbed uzder the common pressure of the atmosphere .
By frequent repetition of the experiments , I obtained results differing a little from the general principle above stated ; but , for all practical purposes , I apprehend , the law has been announced with sufficient accuracy.* In place of the cock a , I cemented , in one experiment , a very sensible thermometer .
The vessel was next filled with mercury through the cock b ; and the tube B being also filled , the cock b was shut , and a bottle of carbonic acid gas screwed on .
The cock b being then opened , the mercury descended , and a measured quantity of carbonic acid arose into the vessel A. In the same way , a measured quantity of water was introduced .
When the density of the air was suddenly doubled by a column of quicksilver , the mercury in the thermometer , whose bulb was still surrounded by the condensed gas , rose about 1degree .
On agitating the vessel , till the water encompassed the bulb of the thermometer , an elevation of barely a degree ensued in the temperature of the water .
This ascent would probably have been greater , if the evolved heat had not been carried off by the mercury on which the water floated .
Manchester , Dec. 8th , i8o0 ,

