II .
THIE BAKERIIAN LECTURE.- " On the Electro-dynamic Properties of Metals .
" By ProfessorWILLIAMi THOMSON , F.R.S. The Lecturer gave an exposition of the substance of a paper presented by him to the Society under the above title .
The paper consists of five parts , namely:-1 .
On the Electric Convection of Hleat ; 2 .
On Thermo-electric Inversions ; 3 .
On the Effects of Mechanical Strain and of Magnetization on the Thermo-electric Qualities of Metals ; 4 .
On Methods for comparing and testing Galvanic Resistances , illustrated by Preliminary Experiments on the Effects of Tension and Magnetization on the Electric Conductivity of Metals ; 5 .
On the Effects of Magnetization on the Electric Conductivity of Iron .
1 .
In the first part a full account of the experiments , of which the results were communicated to the Royal Society in April 1854 * , is preceded by ashort statementof the reasoning , foundedon incontrovertible principles regarding the source of energy drawn upon by a thermoelectric current , which led the author to commence the experimental investigation with the certainty that the property looked for really existed whether he could find it or not .
In confirmation of the extra* See Proceedings , May 4 , 1854 .
ordinary conclusion then announced , -that an electric current in an unequally heated conductor , if its nominal direction be from hot to cold through the metal , causes a cooling effect in iron , and a heating effect in copper , the author describes new experiments which he has recently made , and which are as decisive in leading to the same conclusion as those by which he had first established it .
He also describes experiments by which he had recently given an independent demonstration that brass has the same property as copper , and platinum the same quality as iron , with reference to electric convection of heat ; results anticipated* , one as certain , and the other as highly probable , from the previous results regarding electric convection in copper and iron , and from the known thermo-electric relations between these metals and the others .
2 .
The phenomenon of thermo-electric inversion between metals , discovered by Cumming , forms the subject of the second part .
A mode of experimenting is described , by which inversions may be readily detected when they exist between any two metals , and , when thermometers are available , the temperature of neutrality determined with precision .
Various results of its application are mentioned , of which some are shown in the following Table:-14 ?
Cent. -1.2 ?
'2 -1 ?
05 8 ?
02 36§ 38§ 44§ 44§ 47 ?
P3 PI P1 PI P2 P2 P2 Lead Silver Brass Cadmium Silver Zinc Lead Brass Tin Brass Zinc 53§ 64§ 71§ 72 ?
/ 99§ 121§ 130§ 162 ?
'5 2370 280 ?
P2 P1 Silver Gold P1 P1 Pi Iron Iron Iron Double wire of Copper Gold Zinc Brass Lead Tin Cadmium Silver Copper Palladium , 11-31 grs. , and Copper , 19'41 grs. The number at the head of each column expresses the temperature Centigrade by mercurial thermometers , at which the two metals written below it are thermoelectrically neutral to one another ; and the lower metal in each column is that which passes the other from bismuth towards antimony as the temperature rises .
Pl , P2 , P. denote three particular specimens of platinum wire , used by the author as standards .
It was also found that Aluminium must be neutral to either P3 , or Brass , or P2 , at some temperature between --14 ?
C. and 38 ?
C. ; that Brass becomes neutral to Copper at some high temperature , probably between 800 ?
and 1400 ?
; Copper to Silver , a little below the melting-point of silver ; Nickel to Palladium , at some high tempera- : ture , perhaps about a low red heat ; and P3 to impure mercury ( that had been used for amalgamating zinc plates ) , at a temperature between --10 ?
and 0 ? .
Probably P3 becomes neutral to pure mercury at some temperature below 10 ?
C. 3 .
In the third part , effects of mechanical strain , and of magnetization on the thermo-electric qualities of metals , are investigated .
The author had previously communicated to the Royal Society* results he had obtained regarding the thermo-electric qualities of copper and of iron wires under longitudinal stress , namely , that the former exhibits a deviation towards bismuth , and the latter towards antimony , from the same metal in an unstrained state .
The only kind of stress applicable to a solid which has no directional attributes , is uniform pressure or traction in all directions .
Hence it appeared probable to the author that a simple longitudinal stress would induce different thermo-electric qualities in different directions , in any homogeneous non-crystalline metal subjected to it .
But he had found ( see Proceedings , May 4 , 1854 ) that the thermoelectric effect of longitudinal traction on a wire , either of iron or of copper , is sensible to tests he could readily command , and more so in the case of the former than in that of the latter .
He therefore made experiments to test the difference of thermo-electric quality in different directions in a mass of iron under stress , and fully established the conclusion that the thermo-electric quality across lines of traction differs from the thermo-electric quality along lines of traction , as bars of bismuth differ from bars of antimony .
The experiments he has already made nearly establish the conclusion that unstrained iron has intermediate thermo-electric quality between those of the two critical directions in iron under distorting stress .
The experiments of Magnus show that wires hardened by wiredrawing have different thermo-electric qualities lengthwise from wires of the same substance softened by annealing .
The author has very * April 1854 .
See Proceedings , May 4 , 1854 .
fled , that in copper , iron , and tin , simple traction , leaving permanent elongation , leaves also a thermo-electric effect , the same as Magnus had found by wire-drawing , which is a composite application of longitudinal traction and lateral compression ; and that in a variety of metals , namely , iron , copper , brass , tin , platinum , permanent lateral compression ( by hammering ) leaves still the same thermo-electric effect , as Magnus had found by wire-drawing .
In cadmium , not examined by Magnus , and lead , which had not a given result , the experiments now adduced show a thermo-electric effect of hammering , the same as in all the other metals except iron .
Zinc wire was also tested , and found to exhibit the same effect as copper , though Magnus had found a reverse quality as due to wire-drawing .
The discrepance in this case is probably due to the peculiar effect of annealing on zinc wire , making it brittle and crystalline , which might give a different condition , as the " annealed " in Magnus 's experiment , and the " unhammered " in the experiment now ' adduced .
Setting aside this case , the author concludes that generally the effect of permanent lateral compression is the same as that of permanent longitudinal extension , or of hardening by wire-drawing , upon the thermo-electric quality of a wire placed longitudinally in an electric circuit ; that in iron it is a deviation from the constrained metal towards bismuth , and that in all the other metals mentioned it is a deviation towards antimony ; and that in copper and iron it is the reverse of the effect experienced by the same metal while under the stress that caused the strain .
Since no kind of strain , except uniform condensation or dilatation in all directions , is free from the directional attribute , it appeared probable to the author that the thermo-electric effects remaining in a metal left with a longitudinal strain , retained after the stress that caused it is removed , must be different in different directions .
He therefore experimented on iron hardened by longitudinal compression , and found that it deviates from soft iron towards antimony , or in the contrary way to iron hardened by longitudinal traction .
From this , and from the results quoted above , it follows that in iron hardened by compression in one direction , the thermo-electric qualities in this direction differ from those in lines perpendicular to it , as antimony differs from bismuth ; that the reverse statement applies to iron hardened by traction in one direction ; and that these differing thermo-electric qualities have in each case the thermo-electric quality of soft iron intermediate between them .
These various results show that the character of the effect in each case is decided by distorting stress or by distortion , and leave entirely open , and only to be answered by further experiments , the questions : what is the thermo-electric effect of pressure or traction , applied uniformly in all ( lirections to a metal ?
and what is the thermoelectric effect of a permanent condensation or dilatation remaining in the metal , when freed from the force by which that condensation or dilatation was produced ?
Experiments are also described , by which the author found that in soft iron under magnetic force , and in that retaining magnetism , when removed from the magnetizing force , directions along the lines of magnetization deviate thermo-electrically towards antimony ; and that directions perpendicularly across the lines of magnetization in soft iron , deviate towards bismuth , from the unmagnetized metal .
He illustrates this conclusion by an experiment on a riband of iron , magnetized nearly at an angle of 45 ?
to its length , and heated along one edge while the other is kept cool .
When the two ends , kept at the same temperature , are put in communication with the electrodes of a galvanometer , a powerful current is indicated , in such a direction , that if pursued along a rectangular zigzag from edge to edge through the band , the course is always from across to along the lines of magnetization through the hot edge , and from along to across the lines of magnetization through the cold edge .
4 .
In this part of the communication , attempts made by the author to find the effects of various influences on electric conductivities of metals are described .
One of these , with a very unsatisfactory method for testing resistances , led to the conclusion that longitudinal magnetization diminishes the conducting quality of iron wire .
The general plan for testing resistances , which he subsequently adopted as the best he could find , and which has proved very satisfactory , is next explained ; and as an illustration , a single experiment on the relative effect of an equal longitudinal extension on the resistances of iron and copper wires is described .
The conclusion established by this experiment is , that both by extension with the tractive force still in operation , and by permanent extension retained after a cessation of stress , the conductivity of the substance is more diminished in iron than in copper ; or else that it is more increased in copper than in iron , or increased in copper while diminished in iron , if it is not in each metal diminished , as the author is led by a partial investigation of the absolute effect in each metal to believe .
5 .
The result previously arrived at regarding the effect of longitudinal magnetization on the conductivity of iron is confirmed ; and an experiment that would have been found impracticable by the less satisfactory method , proves the same conclusion for magnetized steel wire , with the magnetizing influence away .
Two very different experiments show further , that the electric conductivity of magnetized iron is greater across than along the lines of magnetization .
A last experiment , showing that iron gains in conducting power by magnetization across the lines of the electric current , leads to the conclusion that there is a direction inclined obliquely to the lines of magnetization , along which the conductivity of magnetized iron would remain unchanged on a cessation of the magnetizing force .

