borders , alldg inevery part of the revolving ring , presenting U ; S WiLll the same vieBr of colour , breadth , and sharpness of itsoutlinesj no kind of hypothesis but a division of the ringS through which the open heavens may be seen , will answer the conditions of this pllaenomenon .
It remained therefore only to ascertain , whether the southern plane would present us n7ith the same aspect .
Ancl -since I have lately had a great number of fineviews of the ring-ofSaturn7 I slaall lleredeliver as mally of the observations as urill be sufiicient to throw light e-lough on the suleject , to enable us to decide the questionp whether this ring be double or single ?
Observations on tte Wirg of Saturn .
Sept 7 , o790 .
20-feet reflector .
No dark division can a$ yet be seen upon the ring of Saturn ; but it is hardly open enough to expect it to be visible .
Aug. , 1 79o .
20-feet reflectore The black list , on this side of the rirg of Saturn , is exactly in the same relative place where I saw it on the northern plane .
Sept. 25 , 1791 .
vo-feet reflector .
The black division goes all arourld the ring , as far as I can trace it , exactly in the same place where I used to see it on the north side .
Oct. ffi3 , r791 .
lo-feet reflector .
The black dir7ision upon the southern plane of Saturn 's ring is in the salYle place , of the same breadth , and at the same distance from the outer edge , that I have alwYays seen it Oz1 the northerrl plane .
With a power of oo , I see it very distinctly ; it is of the same kind of colour a$ the space betsreen the ring and the body , but not so dark .
Oct. 2+ , y9o .
7-feet reflector.\Vith a new , -maclline polished most excellent specululn ?
I see that the division or the ring-of Saturn ) and the open spaces between the ring and the body , are equally dark , an(l of the same colour with the heavens about the planet .
20-feet-reflector .
the black divisiotl upon the ring is as dark as the heavens .
It is equally broacS on both sides of the ring .
I see it very steadily ) and can trace it a good way tovlards Saturn ; both on the part of the ring which is turned towards usg and oll that which lies the other way .
I trace it as far as the place Bthere a line , perpendicular to the directio ) of the ring , B &gt; could touch the insicle of the ring , or the outside of the open space between the ring at- &lt; d the body of the planet .
40-feet reflector .
I see the division on the ring of Saturn of the same colour as the surrounding heavens .
It is of an equal breadth on both sicies , and I can trace it a great way towards the body of Saturnv 20-feet reflector.\7Vith a power of 600 I can trace the di+7ision very nearly as far as the place ?
where a perpendicular to the direction of the ring , would divide the czpen space be tween the planet and thering , into two equal partse From these-observations , added to what has been given in some fsormer papersI think myself authorized now to says that the 31anet Saturn has two concentric rings of unequal dimensions and breadth situated in one planen which is probably not much inclined to the equator of the plarAetThese rings are at a considerable distance from each other , the smallest being much less in diameter at the outsidet than the largest is at the insides The dilnension of the two ritlgs and the intermediate space are nearly ila the following proportion to each other Inside diameter of the smallest ring tgoo parts .
Outside diameter 75lo Inside diameter of the largest ring 7740 Outside diameter 8qSoo Breadth of the inner ring 805 l3readth of the outer ring 280 Breadth of the vacant space X , , Admitting , with M DE LA LAND , that the breadth of the whole ring , as formerly.supposed t ; o consist of one entire mass , is near one third of the Eliameter of Saturn , it follows that the vacant space between the two rings , accordin-g to the above statement , amounts to near 2513 miles In giving these proportions , which are merely taken from very accurate representations of the phnomena that offered themselves , I do not mean to be scrupulously exact , but reserve a greater accuracy for a filture opportunity ; ntllen a : micrometer , which I have lately applied to the 40-feet tele scope , will assist me to have recourse tc ) proper measures .
It may be remarked , that this opening in the ring must be of considerable service to the planet , in reducing the space that is eclipsed bat the shaclow of the ring to a much smaller compass ; both on account of the direct light it lets through , and because there will be a strong reverberation of the rays of the sun between the two opposite edges Moreover , if these rings should be surrounded by some atinosphereX which is highly probable , the refractions that will take place UpOll the edges will still contribute xto lessen the darkness which the shadow of arl undivided ring mTould have occasioned .
As s^re have now adrnitted Saturn to have two rings en tirely detached from each other , so as plainly to permit us to see the opell heavens through the vacancy betweerz them ; and as in my fortner paper I learre given the revolution of the ring , which w as then supposed to be all in one united tnass it will be necessary to examine , whether t3oth rings partake in the same revolution , or to vzhich the period which has been assiglled belorlgs ?
To decide this point , we must recur to the observations of the spots by which the rotation of the ring uras determined .
Tlle spot called , for instance , which has been observed to renrolve with great regularity through upwards of goo periodsX betweenet ; he 28th of July and the 24th of December , z789 , was certainly situated pretty near the outer edge .
The spot , ( 3 , as may be gathered from the observation of the 16tll of September and eSth of December , was most likely otl the very edge itself ; nor could the spot R be far from it .
This , without con sidering the situation of y and ; , is quite sufficient to determine us to assign the peried wre have gisTen to belong to the large , thin and narrow outward ring .
The spots y and E were probably at some distance from the oututard edge of the outer ring ; but this distance might possibly not exceed thrct of the inside edge of the same ring.\Ve may however adluit them to have adhered to the inner rings whose rotationDis ?
erhaps not very different from that of the outer one ; or we may examine whether these tsro spots may not perhaps agree to some other supposed revolution of the inner ring ; but then the observations that are given ofthemwill hardly be sufficient for establishing the time of that ring 's rotation with accuracy , though they urldoulttedly must amount to a proof that it also revolves withi great volocity on its axis .
^ See Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXX .
page +ss .
Tllat there should be a small difference in the periods of the rotation of the two rings , is highly probable from their different dimensions ; and nosr , that the rotation is known , the division of it into two parts seems to be a very natural conse quence of its construction .
For ) when the extreme thinness is taken into consideration , we find by KEPLER)S law , of the periods of revo]ving bodies placed at different distances , that it vould be very wonderful for so thin , and so broadl a plane , to have adhesion enough to keep together ; and that colasequerltly this ring in its divided state , supposing the rotation of the parts to favour the construction , is more perrnanent than it would be otherwise .
This however is only mentioned as a collateral circumstance , and by no means intended e ; there as a proof of the division , or the ditierent rotation of the two parts of the ring .
For , notwithstatlding we cannot but set the lzighest value upon the excellent theories that have beeIl lately delivered in the Memoirs of a learned Society , of which I also have the honour to be a lnemberv wMe must refer entirely to obsersration for the necessary data on which to found our subsequent computations .
tlthe memoir to which I allude $ refers to obsers7ations of many divisions of the ring of Saturn .
This must lead us to coxlsider the question , whether the construction of this ring isof a nature so as permanently to remain in its present state ?
or whether it be liable to continuaI and frequet changes , ir such a manner as in the course of not many years , to be seer subdiVided into narrow slips , and thetl again as united into orse or two circular planes only ?
Now , without eraterig into a discussion , the mind seems to revolt , even at first sight * See Histoire de l'Academie Royale des Sciences de Paris , 1787 page +9 .
against arl idea of the chaotic state in which so large a mass as the ring of Saturn must needs be , if phnomena like these can be admitted .
Nor ought we to indulge a suspicion of this j3eing a reality , unless repeated and well-confirmed observations had proved beyond a doubt , that this ring was actually in so fluctuating a condition Let us therefore examitle ahhat facts we have to guide us in this inquiry .
After lookitag over all my observations upon Saturn , since the year 177+ to the present timen I carl find only four where any other black division upon the ring is mentioned than the one which I have constantly observed , and from which I have deduced the actual division of the ring into two very unequal portions .
These observations are as follows .
June 19 , z780 .
loh o5t mean time .
With a new 7feet spe cultltn , having an aperture of 6l4 inchesn with also a much im proved sxllall speculum , and a power of about 200 .
I see a second black list upon the ring of Saturn , close to the inner side orl the preceding arln of the ring .
See figure .
Tab Ih Jurle 20 ) 178O .
loh 10t , I see the same double list oll the preceding side of the ring .
June 21 ) 1780 .
loh t. SmalI 20feet , Stewtonian reflector pOVNter GOQ .
I see the second black 11st on Saturn 's ring .
It -is closer to the inside than the other is to the outside ; sbllt it is only vi$ible otl the preceding side of the ring E ; ee Sigure .
June 269 178Os gh 34* Small go-Meet ) Newtoniala reflectol4 ; aperture cvnfitled to 7 inches .
Tne -ed black lists orl the pre ceding ; side of the ring of Saturn ) is avisib7e .
June eg ) 1780 .
xOh UL9ts Saturtl 's belts are very clearO I see but one black list ra ?
ors the ring .
rrhe shadow of the planet is vlsible upon the side of the ring , as well as upon flae small nortE2ern part that projects beyond the ?
lanet .
See fig. .
Nov 21n 17glX oh 28t sid .
time .
Ao-feet reflector , power 370 .
There is no other black , division visible UpOll the ring of Saturn but the one near the outer edge .
It must be cc3nfessed that Sat ; urn BrS in the very best situa t-vn for vlewing the plalle of the ring , NVltlEll the first four observations were 7lade ; and that colasequently they may-be looked upon as a strong evidence for another dierision .
But hitherto I have set them aside as wanting more confirmation not only because I could never perceiere the sane dark line on the following side of the ring as srell as on the preceding side ; nor since I could not find it on the 2gth of June , 17So , as we have seen above ; but cllieiSyn because I have llot been ableX with any of my best instrulxlents , to see it at , ain at all tWe also find by the observation of the 2ISXC of NQVein1)erX 1791 which has been added , t3at the southern plalle , as yet , preseilts us with no other division than the capital one , which I have observed these thirteen yearsg on both sides of the ring .
Ilosv ever , iS the opening should be very narrown and the rings ecceatrics it is possible that a dark line might by this means become visit31e ola one side only .
Moreover , these objects may be so mintite , that no other time than when the plane of the ring is exposed as mtlcll as it can possiluly be will do to ascer tain such phstlonlena .
This will happen again about the year o796 , when wte mayA 11ope to have a satisfactory view of itX with our large instruments .
It remains now to consider the observations that have been made by M. CASSINI , Mr. SHORT , and Mr. AH[ADL : EY .
Withollt beitzg in possession of the original observatiotzs of M. CASSINI , I cannot decide whether the black list which he saw was the same which I htve observed M. DE LA LAND says ( Ast .
Vol. III .
page 441 .
) that CASSINI saw it divided by a small black line into two equal parts .
1M[ .
DE LA PLACE ( Memoir sir la Theory de l'Atzaneau de Satllrne ) mentions that CASSINI saw the breadth of the ring dierided into two parts almost equal ItS should seem from tlois , that WI .
CASSINI N &amp; not particularly attentive to the proportions of the divisionL ; in which case his observations and mi &lt; e will agree perEectly nTell ; but if he has arly where expressly mentioned , that the ring was divided into eqval parts , so that we may be certain he was particularly attentive to that circumstance , it will follow earidently that the ring , since his time , has undergope a very ca pital change in its construction .
Mr. SHORT assured M. DE LA LAND , that he had seen many divisions upon the ring , with his telescope of 12-feet .
A thing of such consequerlce , and so new , ought certairlly to have been given in a more satisfactory and circumstarltial way than only by communicating it , frozn memory , in conversation , to another person .
Besides , it is nfell known that many telescopes will give double and treble imagesX and that especially t+hose thich have large apertures are subject to tremors , which multiply sm(ll lines .
For these reasonsy we can hardly take into account observations that seem not to be sufficiently establishedO What has been said is , however by no means -illtended to un dervalue MrW SHORT'S observations ; and this , I hopen will be evident , when it is remembered how scrupulously I have 3ust before set aside four of my own , becavlse I looked upon them a-s not sufficiently confirmed .
Mr. HADLEY'S observation of the division of the ring , with a G-feet Nevvtoniarl reflector , which w &lt; is certainly a very ex cellent instrument , agrees perfectly well with minee From what has beekl said , it does not appear to me that there ls a sufficient ground for admltting the ring of Saturn to be of a very ehangeable nature , and I guess that its ph-rlomena will Anereafter be so fully explained , as to reconcile all observations .
I-rl the mean while , we must withhold a ISnal judgluetat of its corstruction7 till wJe can have more observations .
Its divisiol however9 into two very unegual parts , can admit of no =doubt ; and the following are measures taken of the diameter of the largest or outn7ard ring .
Oct. 7 , 791 .
Corection of the 20 Sfeet clock-2t 161/ )the Measures of the ring of Saturn with the 20-feet refleCtOre oh 37t lst measure $4 " ) 1 1tF 24 52,537 gd 52,875 4tl ; 54)679 sth S2 n9-03 6thSS 9\#176 ; 44 7th SS,41 t 5S'f , S66 mean of the seven measuress Proper allowance was made for the wires being tangelats t(s the outside of the ring .
When this measure is reducedL to what it XvoulcI be at th$ mean distance of Saturn from the earthg we have 46",8tg2 .
Oct. 24,1791 Correctlon of t12e 40-feet clock + 2S",4 .
Measure of .
the ring of Saturn with the 40-feet reflectorv Power 370i wh 3 lst lmeasure S",9z4 2d,260 3 " , S87 mean of the two measuresa Reduced to the mean distance of Saturn , the measure is 47")241 Nov. 2l , l791 .
Correction of the Ao-feet clock-7'1,8 .
Another measure of the ring of Saturn with the 40-feet re flector .
Power yo .
oh 48 ' lst Ineasure ott,627 2d So , o42 gd -So,808 ^Go",492 mean of the three measuresO to the mean distarace of Saturn the lxeasure i$ Reduced 45")803 OCt .
24 AT0v .
21 47",241 45 j803 : 46",522 mean of the measures with the 4 &lt; o-feet reflector .
40-feet 46's,522 20-feet 46,8S2 : ; 4,6",67y mean of all the tneasuresv By way of forming more easily a comparative idea of the stopendous size of this ring of Saturnn I have calculated the proportion it bears to the earth , and find that its diameter is to that of the latter as,8914 to ; and that consequentlywllen seeh at the nean distance of the sun , it will subtesld an angle of 7 ' 2S'1,332 .
From ti above proport-ions u-e also comptlt-e that this ring must be upwards of go+883 miles in diameter .
X^ On the Rotation of tbeAftb Satellite of Saturnn on its jlxis .
In my frequent observations of the Saturnian system , I re\#176 ; marked , that the , th satellite is subject to a change of brightness .
This having been noticed before by other obserxTersn I did not at first pay so much attention to it as I soon afterwards foutld this circuxustance desersred .
When I saw this satellite always assume the same brighttzess in the same part of it-s orbit , and perceived that its change was regu ] are and periodical , it occurred to me very naturally , that the cause of this plllomenon could be no other than a rotation upon its axis .
It becatne necessary therefc)re to find out a method to deterrllirle the time of this rotation .
In order to itlvestigate this , I pursued the satellite with great attention , and marked all its changes of a-pparent hrightness .
The result of many observations is as follows .
The light of the satellite is in full splendour during the time it runs through that part of its orbit which is between 68 and z2g degrees past the inferior conjunction .
In passing through this arch it does not fall above one magnitude short of the brightS ness of the 4*th satellite .
On the contrary , from about 7 de grees past the opposition till towards the inferior conjlluctions it is not only less bright than the Sd ?
but hardly , if at all ex ceeds the 2ds or even the 1st satellite ; provided the latter be then aboul ; its greatest elongatiol where its light is least in peded by the brightness of the planet .
Upon the whole , the alteration seelus to amoulat to what among the fixed stars , and with the naked eye , would be called a charlge from the th to the 2dn and from the 2d to theSth magnituEle .
Having thus observed this satelliten for many of its rerrolu tions round the primary planet to lose and regain its light regularlyn it is evident that the time of its rotation on its axis cannot differ much from that of its revolution round Sattlrl1 .
I think myself sufliciently authorized to make this collclusion notwithstanding it may have happened sometimes that the light of the satellite has suffered an occasiollul change of short duration , from other causes ; for the same reason that ^ve should certainly allour those who first saw the spots in the sun to be in the right to assigrl the period of its rotation nevrly s ?
herl they perceiered that the same spot made several revolutionsX notwithstanding that spot might afterxvards vanish .
But I may go farther , and ascertain upon sufEcient grounds , that this satellite turns once upon its axis , exactly in the time it performs one revolution round its primary planet .
Thisdegree of accuracy is obtained by taking in the observations of M. CASSINI , which are related intthe Memoires cZe l'Xcademie desSciences , 1 yo$ , page 121 ; wherewe finditmentioned , that c ; the Sth satellite of SaturnLdisappears regularly for about one &lt; &lt; ; half of its revolution , when it is to the east of Saturn.s The same nwemoir contains also a conjecture of this satellites rotation upon its asis ; but this surmise is contradicted X prema ture , in 1707 , page 36 ; where we ; find the following paraJ ... graph .
" 1M .
CASSINI gives an example of the danger there is s ; in these sort of determinations that are made too hastily .
s ; The th satellitet of Saturn , of wluich we have said , in the c ; History of r70S , page 21 , that it grew invisibles in the sc eastern half of the circle it describes ahout Saturn , begany ' ; in the month of Sept. 7o$ to be there visible , as well as in ac ; the western half .
, where it alvv-ays wasso .
Hence the concc jectures which we have related cease to be well founded* ' ) Now without determining whether the satellite , from somew cause or other , ceased to charlge its brightness , or whether its phxnomexla were not sufficiently followed to come to a proper conclusions I thirlk that with the assistance of observations at so great a distalace of time as those of M. CASSINI I may suXi cierltly establish the period of this $atellite 's rotation For since I have traced the regular , and periodical change of lighty through more than ten revolutions ) and find them , in all appearance , to be contemporary with its return about Saturn , lt leads us directly to a strong presumption that its rotation upon its axisn like that of our snoon , strictly coincides with its revolution round its primary planet ; and the observatlons of M. CASSINI completely confirm this conclusion For , had he seen the satellite brightest in any other part of its orbit , our observations would not have agreed together ; but since they year 170tS , the satellite has made about 397 revolutions ; and yet the phxnomena described by CASSINI answer now as exactly to my own obserfirations , as the spots in our moonw viewed in CASSINI'S time , answer to those we now observe If it should be objected , that the , gth satellite of Saturll has not been continually observeds and that consequently these appearances might either not happen at all , or fall upon diXerent places in its orbit ; I ans-Wer that a period of more thaxl ten revolutions , which I have inclucIed , is already a strong argument that n-o such change has taken place ; for if the satellite had but made a single lot-ation upon its axis more or less than it has made revolutions round Saturn , the chalzg ; e must aluourlt to nearly one degree per revolution ; that is , to about ten de grees during the time of my taking notice of it ; which is a quantity I think I might have perceived .
Houzever , to remove all doubt ) we have some valuable observations of M. BERNARDS who in the year 178y , also found the , Sth satellite of Saturn subi ; ect to the same change of light that M. CASSINS had observed .
e Now , by joining those to mine , we have a short period of near 20 revolutions that agree together , so as to preclude all doubt of any intermediate challge ; and therefore Mre cannot be liable to err , when nve extend this period to all the 397 reYO1UtiOnS SinGe CASSINI}S time , and by that means ascertain that the th satellite of Saturnw turns upon its axis , once in y9 days , y hours ) and 4y mintltes I cannot help reflecting , with some pleasure ) on the discovery of an analogy , which sheuTs that a certain , uniform plan s carried Oll among the secondaries of our solar system ; and we zmay conjecture , that probably most oI Xche znoons of all the planets are governed by the same law ; eslzecially if it be fownded on such a construction of the figure of the secondariesR as makes them zmore ponderous towards their primary planetsw lSor ) if errerl the Sth satellite of Saturns which is at so great a distance from its planet , is affected by such a law of course the other satellites are not very likely to have escaped its inflLuenceG * See Memoires de l'Xcadenziea I786 , page 378 Fronz the considerable charlge in the brightness of the th satellite of Saturn , we may be certain that some part of its surface , and this by far the largest , reflects much less light than the rest ; a-rld , from the points of its orlbit in which it appears brightest to us , we conclude that neither the darkest nor brightest side of the satellite is turned towards the planet , but partly one and partly the other ; though prO ?
tbly rather less of the bright side The great regularity of this change of brightness seenals to point out another resernblance of this satellite with our moon , It is well knowla t]lat ur see the spots of the moon pretty nearly of the same brightness so as tzot to le overcast in a very strong degree by detlse clollds to disfigure them , and therefore haste great reason to surmise that ller atmosphere is extremely rare ; which indeed we also know from otllet principles : Irl like manner , on account of the utlinterrupted changes in the brightness of the 5th satellite of Saturn , we may suppose that it also partakes of a silnilar fate with respect to its atmosphere , which is probably as rare as that of our noon .
On the Distance of tbeBth Satellite .
Tlle distance of the Sth satellite from Saturn is allowed to be the luost proper for obtaining a true measure of the quantity of luatter contained in the planet ; for which reason I have taken mally measures of it with the gofeet reflector .
I give them at full letlgth , that the validity of them may appear in its proper light Sept. tS , z7j91 .
Correctzon of the clock-2 ' 191'1S for midnight .
Distarlve of the th satellite of Sat ; urn from the centre of the planet ; measured with the 20feet reflector , and a magllifying planet ; measuredwi power of Sy .
: 23h 49 23 33 23 47 23 55 02 st measure 8t*G5tt,684 2d 8 , is gd 8 S9 179 4th 8 52,123 th 8 56 , S,61 6th-8 SSn797 8 ' $5S'qS mean of the six measures .
SeptX 28 , r 7g .
Correction of lbe clock !
" 1 2 ' 20t',2 .
2h 38 ' jst measure gt 27",7$9 21 44 2n .
9 29 9S7 gt 46 Sd g 27,815 21 50 4th 9 28 j238 21 $3 sth n9 28 &gt; 970 21 58 6th 9 27,420 9t 28tt,4 mean of the six measures .
Sept. 29 179t Correction of the clock 2t 2011 j4e oh t7t ilSt measure 9 ' 37 " , o60 0 22 2d 9 g6 nSG2 o 26 Sd 9 g6,270 Q 29 4th 9 36,86g o th 9 37 765 o g6 6tll 9 37 , o60 9 ' , S6",9 mean of the sis measures .
; Sept got z791 .
Correction of the clock-2/ 20t',60 20h 25t 20 29 Mo 34 20 38 eo 4o Mo 42 lst measure gt-tSg",2S8 -ed 9 38 441 Sd 9-37 , S96 th 9 3y,032 sth 9 40,949 6th 9 37,793. .
9 ' 38/ t , mean of the six measurese r ) 2 Suppsing the satellite now to be not far from its greatest elongation , I measured the declirzation between the centre of Saturn , and the Sth satellite ; causing one to pass along one wires while the other followed upon the other wire .
22h32 ' lst measute 1'4l'',889 22 47 gd 1 45,609 ' 4,3",74,9 meatl\#162 ; f the two measures Not being satisfied with the considerable disagreement , I took another measure with the utmost precaution and care ; as the apparent curvature of the wires at so great a distance required more than colnmon attention .
oh 52 ' very exact .
4grl,3 , S4 Mearl between this and the former mean , ' 4g")545 south of the parallel of Saturtl .
The satellite not being perhaps arrived at its greatest elon -gation , I took six other measures of its distance .
S ' lst measure 9'4w",907 z zl 2d 9 38,723 l 14 Sd 9 38,1S9 1 18 4th 9 41,203 z 23 sth 9 40 , S85 &lt; 26 6th 9 ao 9345 9 ' 40 ',4 mean of the sis tneasures .
In the last six measures of the sth satellite , I used a method a very little diSerent from that which I eanployed before ) and which is probably more accurate .
I used to obsersre , when the two wires were nearly brought to their proper distance the moment of interwetion of the satellite ; and the instant it was hid behind the wire cast my eye on Saturn which should 1ze bisected when the tneasure is justly taken .
13ut this change of attention cannot be made without some very small loss of time .
To correct this defict I took alterllately the bisection of Saturn , and cast my eye upon the satellite ; and the bisection of the satellites castilzg the eye upon Saturn .
As the latter way gieres the interval too smalls the former gives it too large , and between both the true measure may be obtained .
I do not , however , suppae , that the error of the former method can amount to so much as a single sewnd of space ; as , knowing the loss of time , Ialways used the uttnost precaution ; and repeated the examination of a measure perhaps 20 times before I let it pass C)ct .
ls t &gt; t Arrection of be clock-2t GO't,0t e2h2G1 sst measure 9t 43tt,767 22 27 2d 9 44 444 22 30 sd 9 4g , ooy 22 32 th --"i 9 42,09 22 34 .
sth 9 40 , M4 22 36 6th 9 + , g65 9t 4g/ ' , o mean of the six : measures .
s It grew cloudy , so that no measures later in the night could be obtained ; nor could I get another sight of Saturn till October the 7th , when the tellite was fir aderanced in its orbit ) on its return towards the planet .
Supposing the satellite to have been very nearly at its greatest elongation , uthen the last six measures were takerl , I have reduced them to theAmean distance of Saturn where they give 8 ' g",97 .
I forbear making deductions from this result , with respect to the quantity of matter contained in the planet , as9 possibly9 the orbit of the satellite may 1)e considerably elliptical ; in which case measures taken in opposite parts of that orbit will be required , be:fore ^we can rnalie a strict application of the laws of centripetal forcest T RANSACTION S. Io Oza the Ring of Satarnn andR the Rotatzon of the Jifth Satellile ufton its Axis .
By William Herschel , I , L. Do F. Ro S. Read December oS , *179te It is well known to Astronomers that the ring of Saturn be c &lt; :mes alternately enli ; htened on one of its sides , and that this change of illumination takes place when the planet pass $ throughthe llode of the ring .
This happened in Octoberv oy8 , when the southern plane , which had been ill the dark for about fifteen years , became visible to us : all event to which I have looled forwards with considerable impatietlce .
In the year 79e , the position of the ring was still too oblique to permit no to exatnine it well enough to form a proper judgment of its appearance9 but lately I have been able to view it to greater adrrantage , with every olae oftny telescopes .
In a former paper , $ where I ventllred to hint at a division of the ring of Saturz , lt u7as 11ighly necessary to express that surnise with proper dotlbts concerning the reality of-so wo11 + Philo Trarlst Yo1 .
LXXX .
page .
P. MDCCSC 11 [ 3 PHILOSOPHIGAL Dr. HERSCHEL)S ObserzJations on derful a conslUruction ; but my late vievitS of its southern planey assisted by solve conclusions drawtl from the discovery oi the quick rotation of the ring have enabled me to speald decisively on l ; his subject .
My suspicion of a divided or double ring arose chiefly from the following circumstarlcesX In the first place the black belts during the tizne of about ten years that I observed it , on the rLorthern planeX was sub ect to no kind of chazge ; but retmaitled always permanerltlys of the same breadth and colourO With regard to its breadtlly st is true that I could only judge of that part of it sarlaicll goes across the body of the planet , by the rules of perspectiveS +hich made nze suppose it to be as broad there as it was or the two sides ; yet now , as we know that the ring revolves in about ten hours and a halfa it is very certain , that the appa rently narrow part , across the body , and that which was hidden behind the planet , in the course of an earerlirzg , , when I have been observing SaturRz for many hours together must have been exposed to view in their full breadthg upon the sie$ of the ring X and that , lf there had been any differenceg I must .
have perceived it ; especially as I was continually on the look out for such phnome-nag by way of ascertaining ) if possible the rotation of the ring .
In the next place the colour of this dark belt v1as also uni formly the saneg whetlever I observed it under equally fa votlrable circumstances ; and being so well defined on both its S When I ; say that thG lulack divisiotl was always of the same breadth , I do nof mean to exclude very small variations , not only of the breadth of the black luarky bur : of the ring itself , which I hare occasionally olzserved .
&gt; and which it may be necessary , here { afterX to comgmunicate at fu11 length ; but these , almost mnperceptible3 di : Serences might arise from causes that are foreign to our present purposeO

