A Method of examining refractive and dispersive Powers , by prismatic Reflection .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 24 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 365 .
] The principle of this method depends on the reflection of light at the inner surface of a denser refracting medium .
Its application in the first instance is deduced from a theorem , from which we gather , that since the range of inclination within which total reflection takes place , depends not only on the density of the reflecting prism , but also on the rarity of the medium adjacent to it , the extent of that range will vary according to the difference of the densities of the two media .
And that hence when the refractive power of one medium is known , that of the rarer medium may be thence inferred , by ascertaining the angle at which the ray of light will be reflected from it .
Having exemplified this by several instances of different media , the author proceeds to give an account of an instrument he has contrived for the purpose of applying this principle to practice .
Its object is to measure by mechanical means , which can only be understood by inspecting the drawing annexed to the paper , the sine representing the refractive power of the medium applied to the prism .
One of the advantages which this method possesses above the usual mode of examining refractive powers is , that whereas hitherto it was necessary that the substances under examination should have two surfaces inclined towards each other under a known angle , this method enables us to deduce the results from only one surface , and without any computation .
Hence also , as trials can be made by mere contact , may the refractive powers of opake bodies be easily determined .
And these powers in different bodies may likewise be used as convenient tests in many philosophical inquiries .
This method applies also to media of which the refractive densities are not uniform , such as the crystalline lens in the eyes of animals , which is now known to be more dense in the centre than at its surface .
It is here shown in what manner , by placing one of these varied media in contact with a prism , all its gradations of density , from greatest to least , will become at once manifest by mere inspection .
Lastly , a table is given containing a seiies of substances arranged according to their refractive powers , chiefly deduced from experiments made according to the method here described ; some to which the machine for measurement would not apply , being obtained by other means , or borrowed from other authors .
The second part of the paper treats of the dispersion of light .
The principles and observations on which the inductions here given chiefly depend , are these:-When a glass prism is placed in contact with water , and brought near the eye , in such a position that it reflects the light from the window , the extent of perfect reflection is seen to be bounded by a fringe of the prismatic colours in the order of their refrangibility .
But it may happen that two media which refract unequally at the same incidence , may disperse equally at that incidence ; and , under these circumstances , a pencil of rays passing from one of these media into the other , will be refracted without dispersion of its colours .
The boundary of prismatic reflection will then be found a well defined line , free from colour , if the surface at which the reflected light emerges from the prism be at right angles to its course .
Moreover , when the disparity of the dispersive powers of the media is still greater , it may also happen that the usual order of prismatic colours will be reversed , and then the red , or least refrangible ray , will appear strongest and lowest in the fringe , unless the colours so produced are counteracted by refraction at their emergence from the prism .
This doctrine is illustrated by examples of various , both simple and compound , substances , and especially by the effect of metallic solutions differently diluted in less dispersive media .
Having compared several of these , each diluted till the limit of reflection appeared void of colour when in contact with a rectangular piece of plate-glass , he deduced thence a table of their refractive powers , in that state of dilution in which the eye could discern the disappearance of colour .
He likewise made experiments on dispersion by means of wedges , in the manner practised by Mr. Dollond , Dr. Blair , and others ; and has reduced the substances thus examined into a second table , arranged according to the excess of their effect on violet above red light , at a given angle of deviation .
By comparing this with the preceding table , it appears how little correspondence there is between them , and consequently how numerous are the combinations by means of which a pencil of rays that passes through two media , may be made to deviate without dispersion of its colours .
At the close of this paper the author remarks , that the colours into which a beam of white light is separable by refraction , appear to him to be neither seven , as they are usually seen in the rainbow , nor reducible to three , as some persons have conceived ; but that by employing a very narrow pencil of light , four primary divisions of the prismatic spectrum may be seen , with a degree of distinctness which , he believes , has never been described nor observed before .
These colours are red , yellowish green , blue , and violet , in the proportion nearly as the numbers 16 , 23 , 36 , 25 .

