An Analysis of several Varieties of British and Foreign Salt ( Muriate of Soda ) , with a view to explain their Fitness for different economical Purposes .
By William Henry , M.D. F.R.S. , Vice-Pres .
of the Literary and Philosophical Society , and Physician to thelnfirmary , at Manchester .
Read January 25 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 89 .
] An opinion having for some time prevailed , both in this and in other countries , to the prejudice of British salt as a preserver of animal food , and large sums of money being annually paid to foreign nations , in conformity to this opinion , for the supply of an article which Great Britain possesses beyond almost any other country in Europe , Dr. Henry has been induced to undertake the present inquiry , for the purpose of ascertaining whether the preference of foreign salt be founded on accurate experiments , or merely a matter of prejudice ; and in the former case , whether any chemical difference could be discovered that would explain that superiority .
The subject is divided into three parts : in the first of which are contained , general observations on the different kinds of salt manufactured , and the modes of preparing them .
The second division contains the general statement of the results of the experiments , and conclusions deducible from them .
But since a long detail of analytical processes must be uninteresting to very many persons , to whom the results will be acceptable , the description of the method employed by Dr. Henry , in his analysis , is reserved for the last section , in which ( as the author observes ) are not to be expected any novelties in science , but merely a careful selection and employment of known processes .
The principal sources of the salt manufactured in this country are : the rock salt of Cheshire ; the brine springs , which are also mostly in the same district ; and sea water , which cannot be evaporated artificially with profit , excepting where fuel is cheap .
Concerning the preparation of salt in Cheshire , Dr. Henry extracts a brief statement from an excellent history given by Mr. Henry Holland , in the agricultural report of the county of Chester ; and he notices four varieties .
First .
That which is called stoved or lump salt .
Second .
Called common salt .
Third .
Large-grained flaky salt .
Fourth .
Fishery salt ; the difference among these depending principally on the degree of heat used for evaporation of the brine .
The stoved salt is prepared by rapid evaporation at a boiling heat of 226 ?
Fahrenheit , and it obtains its name from being subsequently dried in stoves after being well drained .
For making common salt , the brine is evaporated at a temperature between 160 ?
and 1700 ; and as the salt is consequently formed in somewhat larger grains , it is merely drained , and does not require to be dried in stoves as the former .
The name of the third , or largegrained flaky salt , implies a slower process of crystallization , and it is conducted at a temperature of 130 or 140 degrees .
The last , or fishery salt , which is the largest , is prepared at a heat of 100 or 110 degrees .
This process is so slow as to last seven or eight days , instead of eight or ten hours , which is the shortest time employed in the first mode of evaporating the same quantity of brine , and accordingly the salt forms in large cubical crystals , proper to the muriate of soda .
Of these varieties , the stoved salt is that which is usually employed for domestic purposes .
The common salt is consumed principally in the salting of provisions that are not intended for seavoyages .
But for this last purpose , the large-grained or fishery salt is peculiarly fitted .
With respect to the preparation of salt from sea-water , the author takes notice of the process employed on the coasts of Scotland , both east and west , where , from the cheapness of fuel , artificial heat alone is used ; and of the salt-works at Lymington in Hampshire , where advantage is taken of a milder climate for removing five sixths of the water by spontaneous evaporation , previous to its admission into the boilers .
Since the evaporation in each of these works is conducted rapidly during the formation of the salt , it generally resembles the stoved salt of Cheshire ; but in consequence of the heat being slackened during Sundays , a larger kind is then formed , and it is termed Sunday salt .
At Lymington , there are also formed , by drippings from the salt during its drainage , large stalactical masses , termed salt-cats , weighing sixty or eighty pounds each ; but these do not exceed T , r- , th part of the salt prepared at Lymington .
Of the several salts above described , the large-grained fishery salt is that which most resembles the foreign bay-salt in appearance ; and in fact ( says the author , ) a large proportion of what is sold in London as bay-salt , and esteemed as of foreign manufacture , is this Cheshire salt .
Dr. Henry next gives a table of the results of his chemical experiments on eleven varieties of salt ; and in this it appears , that the Lymington cat is that which contains the smallest quantity of impurity , and the Lymington or Scotch common salt the largest quantity ; the first amounting to only 12 parts in 1000 , and that of the last to 64 .
But it appears that all the kinds of Cheshire salt are nearly equal to the Lymington cat in purity , and perhaps superior in respect to the quality of the extraneous matter , which varies in different kinds from 134 to 17I in the thousand .
The foreign bay-salts , on the contrary , have as much as from 35 to 40 parts of impurity .
Of these about 10 parts are insoluble , and consist chiefly of argillaceous earth , coloured by oxide of iron .
The native rock salt of Cheshire also contains as much or more of insoluble impurity , which is chiefly a marly earth , with some sulphate of lime .
The earthy muriates of lime and magnesia abound most in salt which is prepared by rapid evaporation of sea water .
Since common salt contains extremely little water of crystallization , it is pretty evident that the earthy muriates discovered in the analysis of sea salt are derived from the portion of the mother water which adheres to the salt after being drained ; and accordingly , those salts prepared from sea water that are smallest grained , and consequently have the largest proportion of interstice , are debased by the largest proportional quantity of this species of impurity .
But of this impurity the Cheshire salts are nearly free , as they do not contain one part in 1000 of earthy muriates ; and indeed it is scarcely possible that any portion of Cheshire prepared salt can contain more , since the rock itself does not contain more than 5 in 1000 ; while on the contrary , in sea water , the earthy muriates amount to no less than T-VWths of the entire quantity of salt contained .
Dr. Henry pays particular attention to these muriates , because the propensity of common salt to deliquesce by attracting moisture from the atmosphere , depends in great measure ( though not entirely ) on the presence of these deliquescent compounds .
Since in the analysis of salts nominally the same , great difference often occurred even in examination by the same process , Dr. Henry endeavoured to trace the origin of this disagreement of his results .
And , as he conceived it might arise from the different degrees of purity of the liquor in different stages of its evaporation , he procured three samples of common salt , of which one was taken from the boiler two hours after the first application of heat ; the second at the end of four hours ; and the third at the end of six hours : and he found The first to contain 16 parts of sulphate of lime in 1000 ; The second to:contain 11 ; and , The third only 3I .
But on the contrary , when the impurities are of a different species , and are highly soluble , these will be found to abound most in the salt last drawn , on account of the large proportion they then bear to the aggregate contents of the mother liquor .
The author also ascertained the quantities of water contained in the several varieties of salt ; but this he found to be very small , and not constant in any one , appearing rather as an accidental than a necessary ingredient in any of them .
Since the differences of chemical composition discoverable by experiment are not sufficient to account for those properties which are imputed to the several varieties of muriate of soda , the author is of opinion they must depend upon some mechanical property ; and the most obvious are the magnitude of the crystals , and their degree of compactness or hardness , which must each retard the process of solution ; since a given weight of the salt will expose less surface for solution , even from mere magnitude of its particles ; and hence will remain more permanently between the different layers of provisions , and furnish a constant supply of saturated brine during the gradual exudation of the fluids originally contained .
For the purpose of estimating the compactness of several different varieties of salt , Dr. Henry took some pains to measure their specific gravities , by putting equal weights successively into the same vessel , and again weighing it after filling the interstices with a saturated solution of salt .
The specific gravity of rock salt was found , thus , to be. .
2125 That of the same broken into small fragments ... . .
, .
2112 That of stoved salt was also , ... ... ... ... ... 2112 Common salt ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2084 Fishery salt ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1909 St. Ubes , as a specimen of bay-salt ... ... ... , 1932 The difference between the large-grained fishery salt and the baysalt of foreign manufacture is so inconsiderable , that although the superiority of the former in chemical purity may not be considered as of any advantage for economical purposes , yet in its mechanical qualities it cannot be said to be inferior in a degree that can be prejudicial , The methods of analysis employed by the author in this inquiry are next described .
The salt to be examined was first dried at a given temperature of 180 ? .
The earthy muriates were then separated by alcohol , and their aggregate weight ascertained after evaporation of the alcohol .
An aliquot part was next dissolved , and the lime precipitated first by carbonate of ammonia , after which the magnesia was separated by phosphate of soda , as a triple ammoniacal phosphate of magnesia .
A previous trial having shown that 100 grains of dry muriate of magnesia would give 151 of the triple phosphate , the quantity of muriate of magnesia was inferred from this latter precipitate , and the difference between that and the aggregate weight of the two muriates was considered as muriate of lime .
Sometimes the estimation was formed in a different way , by superoxalate of potash , which was found to occasion a precipitate of 116 grains from 100 dry muriate of lime ; and thence , as before , the weights of each might be inferred .
For estimating the earthy sulphates , the quantity of original salt that remained after affusion of alcohol was dissolved by long boiling in water ; the earths were precipitated as carbonates by carbonate of soda .
The sulphuric acid was separated by muriate of barytes , and thence estimated .
The earths were then re-dissolved in sulphuric acid , dried , and their weight ascertained .
Of these sulphates , the more soluble part was dissolved in a small quantity of warm water , and the magnesia precipitated , as in the former case , as a triple phosphate of magnesia .
It was found that 100 grains of this precipitate indicate 111 of crystallized sulphate of magnesia ; and hence the respective quantities of the two sulphates was known : but since it was possible that some proportion of alkaline sulphates might be also present , some collateral experiments were necessary for the purpose of ascertaining whether the sulphuric acid obtained above by muriate of barytes , corresponded with that which would be contained in the mere quantities of sulphate of magnesia and sulphate of lime discovered to be present .
The quantity of sulphate of barytes produced from 100 grains of sulphate of lime was accordingly ascertained , and found to be 175-9 ; and 100 grains of crystallized sulphate of magnesia were found to give 112 of sulphate of barytes .
And since the aggregate quantity of sulphuric acid obtained from any quantity of salt examined was found to agree with the above proportions , it was inferred that no alkaline sulphate was present in any of the varieties of muriate of soda , whether of English or foreign manufacture .
In addition to the author 's account of the methods pursued in his analyses , he also mentions various objects of inquiry respecting the preparation of salt , which may be interesting to chemical readers:such as the specific gravity of the original brine of Cheshire , and its original contents ; the specific gravity of mother liquors , and their ultimate contents ; the clearings of brine , which are raked out as soon as the salt begins to granulate ; the pan-scale , that forms as a hard crust , attached to the pan in which the brine is evaporated ; and the varieties in this scale , under different circumstances .
The difference between sea-water and the brine from salt-springs is also stated , and the extreme difference also of the residua obtained from the respective mother liquors , especially in respect to muriate of magnesia ; since the mother liquors of Cheshire contain only 35 parts in 1000 , while that of the other amounts to 874 ; the mere refuse of the Cheshire processes being nearly equal in purity to some kinds of salt prepared from sea-water .

