Account of a Series of Experiments , undertaken with the view of decomposing the Muriatic Acid .
By Mr. William Henry .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. P.R.S. Read Feb. 27 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 188 .
] In the introduction to this paper the author points out the great utility that would accrue to chemical science , were it possible to arrive at a complete analysis of certain acids , since the new , and indeed every system of chemistry , will ever be incomplete and liable to subversion till the particular agents here alluded to have been resolved into their constituent principles .
The obstacles , however , which impede the progress of this investigation , are much greater than may appear at first sight ; and among these are particularly mentioned the difficulty of obtaining the acids completely separated from all other substances , which , by their presence , will ever tend to introduce uncertainty into the results of the process ; it being observed that the attraction between compound particles at all times increases in proportion as we recede from the point of saturation , and that the smallest remnant is often sufficient to perplex all further analysis .
The liquid state is thought to be totally unfit for the purpose of this inquiry : and after some other strictures , it is shown that the state of the gas is the only one in which acids can become proper objects of analytical investigation .
In the series of his experiments on the muriatic acid in the gaseous state , Mr. Henry employed the electric fluid as an agent much preferable to artificial heat .
" This mode of operating , " he says ; " enables us to confine accurately the gases submitted to experiment ; the phenomenon that occur during the process may be distinctly observed , and the comparison of the products with the original gases may be instituted with great exactness .
" The action of the electric fluid itself , as a decomponent , is no doubt extremely powerful ; since it is capable of separating from each other the constituent parts of water , of the nitric and sulphuric acids , of the vegetable alkali , of nitrous gas , and of several other bodies whose components are known to be strongly united .
The experiments were made in straight glass tubes of various diameters , armed at the sealed end with a metallic conductor , through which the shocks were introduced , the gas being at the other end confined by quicksilver .
The experiments , eighteen in number , are arranged under two heads , the first of which relates to the effects of electricity on muriatic gas , either pure or with the admixture of common air and oxygenous gas ; and in the second are recorded the effects of electrifying the muriatic acid gas with inflammable substances .
The results of these experiments , which in the first set were generally a diminution , and in the second an expansion of the aerial fluid within certain limits , plainly evinced that no decomposition whatever of the muriatic acid had ever been effected , the residue always exhibiting the characters of hydrogenous or carbonic gases , whence it was reasonable to infer that with all the precautions that were used , the muriatic gas had never been perfectly freed from some admixture of water or other ingredient .
The following general conclusions are deduced from these results .
1 ) The muriatic acid gas , in the driest state in which it can be produced , still contains a portion of water .
The most decisive of the experiments indicating a proportion of 1'4 grain of water to 100 cubical inches of muriatic gas , long exposed to a sufficient quantity of muriatic lime .
2 ) When electrical shocks are passed through this gas , the watery portion is decomposed ; the hydrogen of the water which unites with the electric matter , constituting hydrogenous gas ; and the oxygen which combines with the muriatic acid which at the same time acts on the quicksilver , composing muriate of mercury .
3 ) The electric fluid serves as an intermediate agent in combining oxygen with muriatic acid ; while the really acid portion of the muriatic gas does not sustain any decomposition by the action of electricity .
4 ) When electric shocks are passed through a mixture of carbonated hydrogen and muriatic acid gases , the water held in solution by these gases is decomposed by the carbon of the compound inflammable gas , and carbonic acid and hydrogenous gases are the result .
5 ) When all the water of the two gases has been decomposed , no effect ensues from continuing the electrization .
6 ) And lastly , since carbon , though placed under the most favourable circumstances for being separated from the muriatic acid , and combining with its oxygen , evinces no such tendency , it may be inferred , that if the muriatic acid be an oxygenated substance , its radical has a stronger affinity to oxygen than is possessed by charcoal .
Although this investigation have proved unsuccessful as to the particular object for which it was instituted , the author however thinks the communication of it cannot but be productive of some utility ; since , besides some material facts it has brought to light , it may prevent others from engaging in most laborious processes of a similar nature , being thus cautioned against the fallacy of their results .
All hope , he apprehends , must be relinquished of ever effecting the decomposition of the muriatic acid in the way of simple elective attraction ; its basis being probably some unknown body , which nothing but the application of complicated affinities will perhaps ever enable us to discriminate .

