VIII .
Observations of the Transit of Mercury over the Disk of the Sun ; to which is added , an Investigation of the Causes which often prevent the proper Action of Mirrors .
By William Herschel , LL. D. D. F.R. S. Read February o , 1803. .
HE following observations were made with a view to attend particularly to every phenomenon that might occur during the passage of the planet Mercury over the sun 's body .
My solar apparatus , on account of the numerous observations I have lately been in the habit of making , was in great order for viewing the sun in the highest perfection ; and , very fortunately , the weather proved to be as favourable as I could possibly have wished it .
The time at which the observations were made , not being an object of my investigation , is only to be considered as denoting the order of their succession .
November 9 , 1802 .
About 40 ' after seven o'clock in the morning , I directed a telescope , with a glass mirror of 7 feet focal length , and 6,3 inches in diameter , to the sun ; and perceived the planet Mercury .
It was easily to be distinguished from the openings in the luminous clouds , generally called spots , of which there were more than forty in number .
Its perfect roundness would have been sufficient to point it out , had I not already known where to look for it .
ioh o ' .
When the sun was come to a sufficient altitude to show objects on its surface with distinctness , I directed my attention to the contour of the mercurial disk , and found its termination perfectly sharp .
With a 0o-feet reflector , and magnifying power of 13o , I saw the corrugations of the luminous solar surface , up to the very edge of the whole periphery of the disk of Mercury .
loh 27 ' .
When the planet was sufficiently advanced towards the largest opening of the northern zone , I compared the intensity of the blackness of the two objects ; and found the disk of Mercury considerably darker , and of a more uniform black tint , than the area of the large opening .
1oh 32 ' .
The preceding limb of Mercury cuts the luminous solar clouds with the most perfect sharpness ; whereas , in the great opening , the descending parapet , down the preceding side , was plainly visible .
It should be remarked , that the instrument here applied to the sun , with the moderate power of 130 , is the same lo-feet reflector which , in fine nights , when directed to very minute double stars , will show them distinctly with a magnifier of looo .
Having often attempted to use high magnifiers in viewing the sun , I wished to make another trial ; though pretty well assureds I should not succeed , for reasons which will appear hereafter .
With two small double convex lenses , both made of dark green glass , and one of them having the side which is nearest the eye thinly smoked , in order to take off some light , I viewed the sun .
Their magnifying power was about 30oo and I saw Mercury very well defined ; but that complete distinctness , which enables us to judge with confidence of the condition of the object in view , was wanting .
With a single eye-glass , smoked on the side towards the eye , and magnifying 460 times , I also saw Mercury pretty well defined ; but here the sun appeared ruddy , and no very minute objects could be perceived .
1lh 28 ' .
The planet having advanced towards the preceding limb of the sun , it was now time to attend to the appearances of the interior and exterior contacts .
1 Ih 32 ' .
lo-feet reflector .
The whole disk of Mercury is as sharply defined as possible ; there is not the least appearance of any atmospheric ring , or different tinge of light , visible about the planet .
1Ih 37 ' .
Appearances remain exactly as before .
11 42 ' .
The sharp termination of the whole mercurial disk , appears to be even more striking than before .
This may be owing to its contrast with the bright limb of the sun , which , having many luminous ridges in the northern zone , is remarkably brilliant about the place of the planet .
1h 44i .
I was a few moments longer writing down the above than I should have been , to see the interior contact so completely as I could have wished ; however , the thread of light on the sun 's limb was but just breaking , or broken ; but no kind of distortion , either of the limb or of the disk of Mercury , took place .
The appearance of the planet , during the whole time of its emerging from the sun , remained well defined , to the very last .
The following limb of Mercury remained sharp , till it reached the very edge of the sun 's disk ; and vanished without occasioning the smallest distortion of the sun 's limb , in going off , or suffering the least alteration in its own figure .
As soon as the planet had quitted the sun , the usual appearance of its limb was so instantly and perfectly restored , that not the least trace remained whereby the place of its disappearance could have been distinguished from any other adjacent part of the solar disk .
It will not be amiss to add , that very often , during the transit , I examined the appearance of Mercury with a view to its figure , but could not perceive the least deviation from a spherical form ; so that , unless its polar axis should have happened to be situated , at the time of observation , in a line drawn from the eye to the sun , the planet cannot be materially flattened at its poles .
OBSERVATIONS AND EXPERIMENTS RELATING TO THE CAUSES WHICH OFTEN AFFECT MIRRORS , SO AS TO PREVENT THEIR SHOWING OBJECTS DISTINCTLY .
It is well known to astronomers , that telescopes will act very differently at different times .
The cause of the many disappointments they may have met with in their observations , is however not so well understood .
Sometimes we have seen the failure ascribed to certain tremors , as belonging to specula ; and remedies have been pointed out for preventing them .
Not unfrequently again , the telescope itself has been condemned ; or , if its goodness could not admit of a doubt , the weather in general has been declared bad , though possibly it might be as proper for distinct vision as any we can expect in this changeable climate .
The experience acquired by many years of observation , will however , I believe , enable me now to assign the principal cause of the disappointments to which we are so often exposed Unwilling to hazard any opinion that is not properly supported by facts , 1 shall have recourse to a collection of occasionail observations .
They have been made with specula of unldoubted goodness , so that every cause which impeded their proper action must be looked upon as extrinsic .
I shall arrange these observations under different heads , that , when they have been related , there may remain no difficulty to draw a few general conclusions from them , which will be found to throw a considerable light upon our subject .
Moisture in the Air .
( i. ) October 5,1781 .
I see double stars , with 460 , completely well .
The air is very damp .
( 2 .
) Nov. 23 , 1781 .
15h go ' .
The morning is uncommonly favourable , and I see the treble star Cancri , with 460 , in high perfection .
The air is very moist , and intermixed with passing clouds .
( 3 .
) Sept. 7 , 1782 .
I viewed the double star preceding 12 Camelopardalis , * with 932 .
In this , and several other fine nights which I have lately had , the condensing moisture on the tube of my telescope has been running down in streams ; which proves that damp air is no enemy to good vision .
( 4 , ) Dec. 28 , 1782 .
17h So ' .
The water condensing on my tube keeps running down ; yet I have seen very well all night .
I was obliged to wipe the object-glass of my finder almost continually .
The specula , however , are not in the least affected with the damp .
The ground was so wet that , in the morning , several people believed there had been much rain in the night , and were surprised when I assured them there had not been a drop .
( 5 .
) Feb. 19 , 1783 .
I have seen perfectly well till nowthat X See Phil. Trans. Vol. LXXV .
Part I. page 68 ; II .
53 .
q The time is not marked in the journal ; but , from the number of the observations that had been made during the night , it must have been towards morning .
a frost is coming on ; though Datchet Common , which is just before my garden , is all under water ; a'nd the grass on which I stand with my telescope is as wet as possible .
( 6 .
) Feb. 26 , 1783 .
All the ground is covered with snow ; yet I see remarkably well .
( 7 .
) March 8 , 1783 .
The common before my garden is all under water ; my telescope is running with condensed vapour ; not a breath of air stirring .
I never saw better .
( 8 .
) August 25 , 1783 .
My telescope ran with water all the night .
The small speculum , which sometimes gathers moisture , was never affected in the 7-feet tube , but was a little so in the 2o-feet .
The large eye-glasses and object-glasses of the finders , required wiping very often .
I saw all night remarkably well .
Fogs .
( 9 ) Oct. 30 , 1779 .
It grows very foggy , and the moon is surrounded with strong nebulosity ; nevertheless , the stars are very distinct , and the telescope will bear a considerable power .
( 1o .
) August 20 , 1781 .
It is so foggy that I cananot see an object at the distance of 40 feet ; yet the stars are very distinct in the telescope .
By an increase of the fog , a Piscium can no longer be seen by the eye ; yet , in the telescope , it being double , I see both the stars with perfect distinctness .
( 11 .
) Sept. 6 , 1781 .
A fog is come on ; yet I see very well .
( 12 .
) Sept. 9 , 1781 .
There is so strong a fog , that hardly a star less than 30 ?
high is to be seen ; and yet , in the telescope , at great elevations , I see extremely well .
( 13 .
) March 9 , 1783 .
It is very foggy ; yet in the telescope I see the stars without aberration , and they are very bright .
M Serpentarii is without a single ray , Ff p ( 14 .
) April 6 , 1783 .
A very thick fog settles upon all my glasses ; but the specula , even the 2o-feet , which has so large a surface , remain untouched .
I see perfectly well .
Frost .
( 15 .
) Nov. 15 , 1780 ; 5 o'clock in the morning .
An excellent speculum , No. 2 , will not act properly ; the frosty morning probably occasions an alteration in its figure .
Another speculum , No. i , acts but indifferently , though I have known it to show very well formerly in a very hard frost : for instance , November 23 , 1779 , I saw with the same mirror , and a power of 460 , the vacancy between the two stars of the double star Castor , without the least aberration .
( 16 .
) Oct. 22 , 1781 .
Frost seems to be no hindrance to perfect vision .
The tube of my 7 feet telescope is covered with ice ; yet I see very well .
( 17 .
) Nov. 19 , 1781 .
It freezes very hard , and the stars , even those which are 50o high , are very tremulous .
I suspect their apparent diameters to be diminished ; and , if I recollect right , this is not the first time that such a suspicion has occurred to me .
( 8 .
) Jan. o1 , 1782 .
My telescope would not act well , even at an altitude of 70 or 80 degrees .
There is a strong frost .
( 19 .
) Jan. 31 , 1782 .
I cannot see with a power of 460 , the stars seem to dance so unaccountably , and yet the air is perfectly calm : even at 60 or 70 degrees of altitude , vision is impaired .
( 20 .
) Feb. 9 , 1782 .
That frost is no hindrance to seeing well is evident for , not only my breath freezes upon the sde of the tube , but more than once have I found my feet fastened to the ground , when I have looked long at the same star .
( 21 .
) Oct. 4 , 1782 .
It froze very severely this night .
At first , when the frost came on , I saw very badly , every object being tremulous ; but , after some time , and at proper altitudes , I saw as well as ever .
Between 5 and 6 o'clock in the morning , objects began to be tremulous again ; occasioned , I suppose , by the coming on of a thaw .
( 22 .
) Jan. 1 , 1783 .
I made a number of delicate observations this night , notwithstanding , at 4 o'clock in the morning , my ink was frozen in the room ; and , about 5 o'clock , a 20-feet speculum , in the tube , went off with a crack , and broke into two pieces .
On looking at FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer , I found it to stand at 11 ? .
( 23 .
) May 6 , 1783 .
It freezes , and in the telescope the stars seem to dance extremely .
Hoar-frost .
( 24 .
) Nov. 6 , 1782 .
There is a thick hoar-frost ; yet I see extremely well .
It seems to enlarge the diameters of the stars ; but , as I see the minutest double stars well , the apparent enlargement of the diameters must be a deception .
( 25 .
) Dec. 22 , 1782 .
There is a strong hoar-frost gathering upon the tubes of my telescopes ; but I see very well .
Dry Air .
( 26 .
) Dec. 21 , 1782 .
The tube of my telescope is dry , and I do not see well .
( 27 .
) April 30 , 1783 .
The stars are extremely tremulous 221 and confused ; the outside of the tube of my telescope is quite dry .
Northern Lights .
( 28 .
) Sept. 25 , 1781 .
There are very strong northern lights ; their flashing does not seem to interfere with telescopic vision ; but all objects appear tremulous , and indifferently defined .
( 29 .
) Aug. go , 1782 .
There are very bright northern lights , in broad arches , with white streaks ; yet I see perfectly well .
( 30o .
) March 26 , 1783 .
An Aurora Borealis is so bright , that , Herculis , which it covers , can hardly be seen ; yet , in the telescope , and with a power of 460 , I find no difference .
I compared that star with y Coronae , which was in a bright part of the heavens , and in the telescope they appeared nearly alike .
I suspected q Herculis to be somewhat more tinged with red than it should be ; and examined it afterwards , when clear of the Aurora ; it was indeed less red ; but , as it had gained more altitude , the experiment was not decisive .
Wfindy Weather .
( 31 .
) Jan. 8 , 1783 .
It is very windy .
The diameters of the stars are strangely increased , even those at 60 and 70 ?
of altitude .
Every star seems to be a little planet .
( 32 .
) Jan. 9 , 1783 .
Wind increases the apparent diameters of the stars .
( 33 , ) Sept. o2 , 1783 .
The night has been very windy ; and I do not remember ever to have seen so ill , with such a beautiful appearance of brilliant star-light .
Fine in Appearance .
( 34 .
) May 28 , 178l .
The evening , though fine in appearance , is not favourable .
No instrument I have will act properly .
The wind is in the east .
( 35 .
) August 30 , 1781 .
The stars appear fine to the naked eye , so that I can see e Lyra very distinctly to be two stars ; yet my telescope will show nothing well .
There are flying clouds , which , by their rapid motion , indicate a disturbance in the upper regions of the air ; though , excepting now and then a few gusts of wind , it is in general very calm .
At a distance there are continual flashes of lightning , but I can hardly hear any thunder .
( 36 .
) Sept. 14 , 1781 .
I see very small stars with the naked eye ; but the telescope will not act so well as it should .
( 37 .
) Sept. 24 , 1781 .
The evening is apparently fine ; but , with the telescope , I can see neither n Coronae nor M Bootis double ; nor indeed can I see any other stars well .
Over a Building .
( 38 .
) August 24 , 1780 .
I viewed E Bootis with 449 , 737 , and 910o , but saw it very indifferently .
The star was over a house .
( 39 .
) Oct. 26 , 1780 . ?
Bootis being near the roof of a house , I saw it not so distinctly as I could wish .
The Telescope lately brought out .
( 40 .
) Oct. 1o , 1780 .
6h 30 ' .
Having but just brought out my telescope , it will not act well .
6h 45 ' .
The tube and specula are now in order , and perform very well .
( 41 .
) Jan. ii , 1782 .
To all appearance , the morning was very fine , but still the telescope , when first brought out , would not act well .
After half an hour 's exposure , it performed better .
223 Confined Place .
( 42 .
) July 19 , 1781 .
13h 15 ' .
My telescope would not act well ; and , supposing the exhalations from the grass in my garden to affect vision , I carried the telescope into the street , ( the observation was made at Bath , ) and found it to perform to admiration .
( 43 .
) July 19 , 1781 .
My telescope acted very well ; but a slight field-breeze springing up , and brushing through the street where my instrument was placed , it would no longer bear a magnifying power of 460 .
Haziness and Clouds .
( 44 .
) Sept. 22 , 1783 .
The weather is now so hazy , that the double star Cygni is but barely visible to the naked eye .
This has taken off the rays of the large star , so that I now see the small one extremely well , which at other times it is so difficult to perceive , even with a magnifying power of 932 .
( 45 .
) August 13 , 1781 .
A cloud coming on very gradually npon fixed stars , has this remarkable effect , that their apparent diameters diminish gradually to nothing .
( 46 .
) July 7 , 178o .
The air was very hazy , but extremely calm .
I had Arcturus in the field of view of the telescope , and , the haziness increasing , it had a very beautiful effect on the apparent diameter of this star .
For , supposing the first of the points , Plate III .
Fig. i , to represent its magnitude when brightest , I saw it gradually decrease , and assume , with equal distinctness , the form of all the succeeding points , from No. 1 to No. 1o , in the order of the numbers placed over them .
The last magrnitude I saw it under , could certainly not exceed twotenths of a second ; but was perhaps less than one .
This leads to the discovery of one of the causes of the apparent magnitude of the fixed stars .
Focal Length .
( 47 , ) Nov. 14 , 18oi .
The focal length of my lo-feet mirror increases by the heat of the sun .
I have often observed this before ; the difference , by several trials , amounts to 8 hundredths of an inch .
( 48 .
) Dec. 13 , 18 1 .
The focal length of my lo-feet mirror , while I was looking at the sun , became shorter , contrary to what it used to do ; but , there being a strong frost , I guess that the object metal grows colder , notwithstanding its exposure to the sun 's rays .
( 49 .
) Nov. 9 , 1802 .
loh So ' .
The focus of my 7-feet glass mirror became 18 hundredths of an inch shorter , on being exposed for about a minute to the sun .
The figure of the speculum was also distorted ; the foci of the inside and outside rays differing considerably , though its curvature , by observations on the stars , has been ascertained to be strictly paraboical .
12h o ' .
The same mirror , exposed one minute to the action of the sun , became 21 hundredths shorter in focal length .
The focus of a lo-feet metalline mirror , when exposed one minute to the sun 's rays , became i$ hundredths of an inch longer than it was before .
( 50 .
) January 9 , 1803 .
When I looked with the glass 7feet mirror , several times , a minute or two at the sun , it shortened generally,2 , ,o6 , and,3o of an inch , in focal length .
The observations which are now before us , appear to be sufficient to establish the following principle ; namely , " That in order to see well with telescopes , it is required that " the temperature of the atmosphere and mirror should be uni " form , and the air fraught with moisture .
" This being admitted , we shall find no difficulty in accounting for every one of the foregoing observations .
If an uniform temperature be necessary , a frost after mild weather , or a thaw after frost , will derange the performance of our mirrors , till either the frost or the mild weather are sufficiently settled , that the temperature of the mirror may accommodate itself to that of the air .
For , till such an uniformity with the open air , in the temperature of the mirror , the tube , the eye-glasses , and I would almost add the observer , be obtained , we cannot expect to see well .
See observation 15 , 17 , 18 , 19 , and 23 .
But , when a frost , thdugh very severe , becomes settled , the mirror will soon accommodate itself to the temperature ; and we shall find our telescopes to act well .
See obs .
16 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 4 , and 25 .
This explains , with equal facility , why no telescope just brought out of a warm room can act properly .
See obs .
4o and 41 .
Nor can we ever expect to make a delicate observation , with high magnifying powers , when looking through a door , window , or slit in the roof of an observatory ; even a confined place , though in the open air , will be detrimental .
See obs .
42 and 43 .
It equally shows , that windy weather in general , which must occasion a mixture of airs of different temperatures , cannot be favourable to distinct vision .
See obs .
31 , 32 , and S3 .
The same remark will apply to Aurorae Boreales , when they induce , as they often do , a considerable change in the temperature of the different regions of air .
See obs .
28 .
But , should they not be accompanied by such a change , there seems to be no reason why they should ilnjure vision .
See obs , 29 and 30 .
The warm exhalations from the roof of a house in a cold night , must disturb the uniformity of the temperature of a small portion of air ; so that stars which are over the house , and at no considerable distance , may be affected by it .
See obs .
38 and 39 .
Sometimes the weather appears to be fine , and yet our telescopes will not act well .
This may be owing to dryness occasioned by an easterly wind ; or to a change of temperature , arising from an agitation of the upper regions of the atmosphere .
See obs .
34 and 35 .
Or , possibly , to both these causes combined together .
See obs .
36 and 37 .
If moisture in the atmosphere be necessary , dry air cannot be proper for vision .
See obs .
26 and 27 .
And therefore , on the contrary , dampness , and haziness of the atmosphere , must be favourable to distinct vision .
See obs .
1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , and 8 .
Fogs also , which certainly denote abundance of moisture , must be very favourable to distinct vision .
See obs .
9 , 0o , 11 , 12 , 13 , and 14 .
Nay , if the observatory should be surrounded by water , we need be under no apprehension on that account .
Perhaps , were we to erect a building for astronomical purposes only , we ought not to object to grounds which are occasionally flooded ; the neighbourhood of a river , a lake , or other generally called damp situations .
See obs .
5 and 7 .
Gg2 " 7 It is however possible , that fogs and haziness may increase to such a degree as , at last , to take away , by their interposition , all the light which comes from , celestial objects ; in which case , they must of course put an end to observation ; but they will nevertheless be accompanied with distinct vision to the very last .
See obs .
44 , 45 , and 46 .
We have now only the four last observations to account for , They relate to the change of the focal length of mirrors in solar observations , and its attendant derangement of the foci of the different parts of the reflecting surface ; and , as simplicity is one of the marks of the truth of a principle , I believe we need not have recourse to any other cause than the change of temperature produced by the action of the solar rays that occasion heat ; which will be quite sufficient to explain all the phenomena .
But , in order to show this in its proper light , I shall relate the following experiments .
ist Experiment , I placed a glass mirror , of 7-feet focal length , in the tube belonging to the telescope ; and , having laid it open at the back , I prepared a stand , on which the iron used in my experiments on the terrestrial Rays that occasion Heat ( see Phil. Trans. for i8oo , Plate XVI .
Fig. i ) might be placed , so as to heat the mirror from behind , while I kept a certain object in the field of view of the telescope .
Having measured the focal length , and also examined the figure of the mirror , which was parabolical , the heated iron was applied so as to be about 2 , inches from the back of the glass mirror .
The consequence of this was , that a total confusion in all the foci took place , so that the letters on a printed card in view , which before had been extremely distinct , became instantly illegible .
In 15 seconds , the focus of the mirror was shortened 2,3 inches ; in half a minute , 3,47 inches ; and , at the end of the minute , I found it no less than,59 inches shorter than it had been before the application of the hot iron .
On repeating the experiment , but placing the heated iron no more than of an inch from the back of the mirror , its focal length , in i minute , became 5,33 inches shorter .
I tried also a more moderate heat ; and , placing the iron at 3 inches from the back , the focus of the mirror shortened in one minute 2,83 inches .
A thermometer placed in contact with the reflecting surface of the mirror , could hardly be perceived to have risen , during the time in which the hot iron produced the alteration of the focal length .
2d Experiment .
Every thing remaining as before , I suspended a small globe of heated iron in front of the mirror , at one inch and a half from its vertex ; and , in two minutes , the focus was lengthened 5,3 inches .
The figure of the mnirror was also deranged ; so that the letters on the card could not be distinguished .
I made a second trial , with the suspended iron a little more heated , and brought it as near the surface of the mirror as I judged it to be safe ; since a contact would probably have cracked the mirror .
In consequence of this arrangement , the focus lengthened , in one minute , 1,64 inch .
On removing the heated iron , the mirror returned , in one minute , to within , i8 inch of its former focal length ; and , at the end of the second minute seemed to be nearly restored .
But the disagreement of the foci of the different parts of the reflecting surface might be perceived for a long time afterwards , and caused an indistinctness of vision , which plainly indicated that , under such circumstances , the magnifying power of the telescope , 225 , was more than it ought to be , in order to see well .
3d Experiment .
I now changed the glass mirror for a metalline one ; and , on placing the heater near the back of it , the focus of the speculum , in 3o seconds , became,77 inch shorter .
But , continuing the observation , instead of shortening still farther in the next 30 seconds , it became,3 inch longer , so that , at the end of a minute , it was only 47 shorter than before the approach of the hot iron .
4th Experiment .
When the small heated globe of the 2d experiment was suspended in front of the mirror , the focus lengthened,7 inch in one minute ; nor would the lengthening increase by leaving the hot iron longer in its position .
The foci in this , as well as in the 3d experiment , were so much injured that they could not be measured with any precision ; and it was evident , that high magnifying powers ought not to be used with a mirror of which the temperature is undergoing a continual change .
I repeated the experiment with the iron nearly red hot ; and found the focus lengthened 1,48 inch in 30 seconds .
Five minutes : after the removal of the iron , the regularity of the figure of the mirror was pretty well restored .
With a moderate heat , I had , in go seconds , a lengthening of the focus , of,57 inch ; and , in about -l2 minute after the removal of the heated iron , distinct vision was nearly restored .
These four experiments show , that a change in the temperature of mirrors , occasioned by heat , is attended with an alteration 93t of their focal length ; and also prove , that the figure of the reflecting surface is considerably-injured , during the time that such a change takes place .
We are consequently authorised to believe , that the small alteration in the focus of a mirror exposed to the rays of the sun , arises from the same cause .
For , since a thermometer , when the sun is shining upon it , will show that its temperature is altered , the action of the solar rays upon a mirror must be attended with a similar effect in its temperature .
See obs .
47 , 48 , 49 , and 5o .
The same experiments will now also explain why the observations of the sun , related in our transit of Mercury , between loh 32 ' and i1h 28 ' , were not attended with success ; for we have seen that heat occasions a derangement in the action of the reflecting surface ; and it follows that , under such circumstances , high magnifying powers cannot be expected to show objects very distinctly .
If it should be remarked , that I have not explained why the focus of a glass mirror should shorten by the same rays of the sun which lengthen that of a metalline speculum , I confess that this at present does not appear ; and , as it is not material to our purpose , I might pass it over in silence .
We are however pretty well assured , that the alterations of the focal length must be owing to a dilatation of the glass or metal of which mirrors are made , and must be greatest where most heat is applied .
Our experiments therefore cannot agree perfectly with solar observations ; for , in the glass mirror , the application of partial heat in front , must undoubtedly have been much stronger about the middle of the mirror ( though the centre of it was sometimes guarded by a brass plate equal to the size of the small speculum ) than at the circumference .
But when , on the contrary , a mirror is exposed to the sun , every part of the surface will receive an equal portion of heat .
It may also be said , that I have pointed out a defect in telescopes used for solar observations , without assigning a cure for it .
It will however be allowed , that tracing an evil to its cause must be the first step towards a remedy .
Had the imperfection of the figure brought on by the heat of the solar rays been of a regular nature , an elliptical speculum might have been used to counteract the assumed hyperbolical form ; or vice versed .
And now , as , properly speaking , the derangement of the figure of a mirror used in observing the sun , is not so much caused by the heat of its rays as by their partial application to the reflecting surface only , which produces a greater dilatation in front than at the back , there may be a possibility of counteracting this effect , by a contrary application of heat against the back , or by an interception of it on the front .
But this we leave to future experiments .

