III .
" On the Fossil Human Jawbone recently discovered in the Gravel near Abbeville , " in a Letter to the President , by W. B. CARPENTER , M.D. , V.P.R.S. Received April 16 , 1863 .
University of London , Burlington House , W. April 16 , 1863 .
DEAR MR. PRESIDENT , -I esteem it a privilege to have it in my power to communicate , through you , to the Royal Society some particulars of the important discovery just made by M. Boucher de Perthes , of a human maxilla in one of the gravel-beds near Abbeville also yielding the now well-known flint implements .
Having been informed of this discovery a few days since , whilst staying in Paris , I became additionally desirous of carrying out my previous intention of stopping at Abbeville on my way homewards ; and accordingly , after a short visit to Amiens , -which gave me the opportunity of disinterring for myself a small but well-characterized flint implement from the gravel-pit of St. Acheul , -I proceeded on the afternoon of Monday last to Abbeville , where I was received with the greatest kindness and attention by M. Boucher de Perthes .
The history of his discovery is given in the following extract from the local journal 'L'Abbevillois , ' by which it will be seen that the specimen in question was removed by M. Boucher de Perthes himself from the bed in which the first indications of it had been found by the workman employed in that part of the excavation:"A la fin de mars dernier , le terrassier Halatre , travaillant a cette career , vint lui apporter avec un silex taille un petit fragment d'os qu'il y avait egalement recueilli .
Ayant debarrasse ce fragment du sable qui le couvrait , M. de Perthes aper9ut un dent fort endomtnagee , mais qu'il n'en reconnut pas moins pour un molaire humaine .
" II suivit immediatement Halatre a Moulin-Quignon , v4rifia la place d'oW venait la hachette et la dent , s'assura que cette place etait net de tout infiltration ou introduction secondaire et fit continuer la fouille .
" Elle no produisit ce jour-la aucun resultat nouveau .
" Convaincu que quelqu'autre debris du corps d'ou provenait cette molaire devait se trouver la , M. Boucher de Perthes recom .
manda aux terrassiers de no rien derarger de ce qu'ils pourraient remarquer pendant son absence , mais de le prevenir sans retard .
En effet , le 28 mars le terrassier Vasseur vint lui dire que quelque chose ressemblant a un os paraissait dans le bane .
" Rendu sir les lieux , M. de Perthes trouve le terrain comme l'avait dit Vasseur .
L'extremite de l'os enferme dans sa gangue se montrait d'environ deux centimetres .
" Voulant l'avoir entier , M. de Perthes fit , a l'aide d'une pioche , degager les alentours et , a sa grande satisfaction , il put le retirer du bane sans le rompre .
" I1 no s'etait pas trompe dans ses previsions .
La dent avait annonce la tate , et dans le morceau qu'il venait d'extraire , il reconnut un machoire humaine.-Un grand problem etait resolu .
" A quelques centimetres de ce fossile humain , le premier peut-etre dont la position geologique eut ete aussi nettement constatee , car , par un autre circonstance heureuse , les temoins ici no manquaient pas , etait un hache en silex egalement engagee dans le bane , d'oi , sir l'invitation de M. Boucher de Perthes , M. Oswald Dimpre , jeune archeologue et dessinateur habile bien connu des savants qui ont visit Abbeville , l'enleva mais non sans s'aider aussi de la pioche .
" Un chose qui frappa tous les spectateurs , ce fut la parfaite identite de patine ou de couleur de cette machoire , des silex taille 's et des cailloux roules , avec le bane qui les contenait , couleur brune , presque noire , contrastant singulierement avec la teinte jaune ou grise des banes superienrs et la craie blanch sir laquelle elle repose .
" Mesure prise de chacune des couches superieures , la machoire fossile etait ainsi que les hachettes a4 metres 52 centimetres * de la superficie et tout pres de la craie .
" Ce bane de Moulin-Quignon , place ' sir le plateau qui domnine la vallee , se trouve a 30 metres au-dessus du niveau de la Somme et de la mer. " The particulars I have now to communicate as the result of my own personal examination should , I think , most completely satisfy any unprejudiced person that , on the one hand , the specimen cannot have been a " plant " contrived by the workman , and , on the other , that it could not have found its way into the bed in which it was discovered by any disturbing agency subsequent to the original deposition of that bed * .
When M. Boucher de Perthes had the kindness to place in my hands this precious fragment-which consists of the right half of the lower jaw , containing three teeth-I was immediately struck with its almost black colour , its solidity , and its weight : all these peculiarities ( which are in marked contrast to the characters of the bones ordinarily found in these gravel-pits ) being obviously due to one and the same cause , viz. metallic ( ferruginous ?
) infiltration .
The ordinary flints , and the flint implements obtained from the same deposit , several of which are in the museum of M. de Perthes , are all of them characterized by a like depth of ferruginous tint , which is not seen in any of those taken from any other part of the same pit , or from any other gravel-pit yet opened in the neighbourhood of Abbeville .
As to the anatomical characters of this jaw , I should not wish , without a more careful comparative examination of the specimen than I had the opportunity of making , to give any decided opinion ; but my impression is that they differ very decidedly from those of the same bone in any race at present inhabiting Western Europe .
I was struck with the thickness of the bone , the great breadth of the ascending ramus , but especially with the extraordinary breadth and depth of the groove between the ramus and alveolar border , in which I could almost lay my little finger .
The jaw would appear to be that of a person advanced in life ; and the tooth originally found , which very probably belonged to the other half of the same jaw , seemed to me to have been " endommagee " by caries during life rather than by subsequent violence .
9 , &lt; Fig. 1 .
M. Boucher de Perthes had the kindness to give me the accompanying sketch of the specimen ; and I can testify to the accuracy of its representation of the general form of the bone .
On Tuesday morning I repaired , in company with M. Boucher de Perthes , to the gravel-pit of Moulin-Quignon ; in which he showed me , as nearly as he could , the situation in which this most interesting relic had been found .
Unfortunately there had occurred , a few days previously to my visit , a slip of the overlying strata , by the debris of which the exact spot was covered ; but a part of the same deposit was visible at a horizontal distance of a yard or two , so that I could indubitably verify its position and its general characters .
This deposit , distinguished from every other by the extreme depth of its ferruginous tint ( which corresponds exactly to that of the bone ) , lies at the very bottom of the pit , in immediate contact with the subjacent chalk , as shown in the accompanying representation of the section ( also kindly given to me by M. Boucher de Perthes ) , to the general accuracy of which I can bear the most explicit testimony .
I myself took away from this deposit some specimens of the small rounded flints which it contains , and which will serve to show you this peculiar tint .
Fig. 2.-Section of the Strata in the Gravel-pit of Moulin-Quignon , near Abbeville .
--------_ t. in .
1 .
Vegetable mould ... ... ... ... ... I0 2 .
Undisturbed subsoil , consist~q3~~~ ing of grey sand with broken flints ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 3 / ----^- &lt; ~ 5/ ~ . ?
./ 3 .
Yellowish argillaceous sand , with large flints but little - ... ... ... .::- : ... ... .:__- : =l rolled , resting on a layer of -:- ... ... ... ... .--.------::-grey sand ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 ------4 .
Yellow ferruginous sand , containing smaller and more rolled flints , and divided by a second layer of less yellow sand ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 57 5 .
Argillaceous sand of a deep brown or almost black hue , sticking to the hand and staining it , containing small I~- ; -~-~=----=L----_ _ _flints more rolled than those -_ ___ of the upper strata.-N.B .
The white spaces left in this layer mark the position of the jaw and of the flint hatchet found in contiguity with it .
18 15 6 ... ... .
6 .
Chalk .
These facts must be admitted , I think , to exclude any possibilitY of doubt as to the truly fossil character of this bone .
Its peculiar condition could not have been produced by any artificial means at present known , and most assuredly indicates that it must have been long buried in the deposit from which its metallic impregnation has been derived * .
That it could not have found its way into that deposit in any other mode than by original imbedding , may be fairly concluded from the entire absence of the least indication of disturbance in the superjacent strata , which are most regularly superposed ( as seen in the accompanying section ) to a depth of more than 15 feet .
This complete regularity of superposition in the strata of the gravel-pits of Moulin-Quignon has , I understand , been already verified by numerous experienced geologists , whose testimony upon such a point is of far higher value than mine ; but it is so obvious that I cannot imagine the least doubt to remain in the mind of any intelligent observer who may visit the locality and examine its condition for himself , of the jaw having been imbedded in the lowest stratum before the deposition of the superincumbent layers .
I have further to point out , that as the gravel-bed of MoulinQuignon is about 100 feet above the present level of the river , it corresponds in position with the upper gravel of St. Acheul , not with the lower gravel of Menchecourt .
If , therefore , we accept the conclusions of Mr. Prestwich as to the relative ages of these gravels , this human jaw was buried in the very oldest portion of the earliest of these fluviatile deposits , and therefore dates back to the very remotest period at which we have at present any evidence of the existence of Man .
Believe me , dear Mr. President , Yours faithfully , WILLIAM B. CARPENTER .

