XVIII .
Description of an Apparatus Jr the Analysis of the CMmn poud Inflammable Gases by slow Combustion ; with Experiments on the Gas from Coal , explaining its Application .
By William Henry , M. D. Vice-Pres .
of the Lit. and Phil.:Society , and Physician to the infirmary , at Manchester .
Communicated by H. Davy , Esq. Sec. R. S. Read June 23 , 1808 .
THE aeriform compounds of hydrogen and carbon , which were already entitled to accurate investigation , as objects of scientifi~c research , have derived an additional ' claim to the -attention of the chemist , from their application to an important economical purpose , described in a late tommrnication to the Royal Society.* Yet there is , perhaps , no part of chemistry , the investigation of which is beset with greater difficulty , or with more numerous sources of error ; insomuch , that the actual state of the science enables us to attain scarcely more than approximations to the truth , and degrees of probability of greater or less amount .
It was the object of the experiments , which are described in the fol. lo , wing pages , rather to remove some of the obstacles , which present themselves to a successful enquiry into the nature of these bodies , than to acquire such facts , as may enabe the chemical philosopher to decide the controverted question respecting their composition .
Results , sufficiently multiplied and precise for this purpose , would require a larger appropriation of time , than I have the prospect of being able to bestow ; and I can only on the present occasion , offer an example of the method , in which it appeara to me that the analysis of this class of substances will be most successfully attempted .
-When a vegetable substance , composed ( as may be assumed to simplify the statement ) of oxygen , hydrogen , and carbon , united in the form of a ternary compound , is submitted to distillation , at a temperature not below that of ignition , the equilibrium of affinities , which constituted the triple combination , is destroyed ; and the elements , composing it , are united in a new manner .
Those , which are disposed to enter into permanently elastic combinations , escape in the state of gas .
The carbon , uniting with oxygen , either composes carbonic acid gas , or , stopping short of that degree of oxygenation , which is essential to change it into an acid , is converted into carbonic oxide .
The hydrogen , combining with a portion of carbon , constitutes a binary compound of those two ingredients , forming either what has been called carbureted hydrogen gas , or super-carbureted hydrogen , better known by the appellation of oefiant gas .
Towards the close of the process , a portion of simple hydrogen gas is also mingled with the products .
Perhaps in no instance is any one of the gases , which have been enumerated , obtained perfectly pure , by the d4istillation of a vegetable substance .
The aeriform fluids , i~ , hich are thus generated , are found to be possessedof almost every degree of specific gravity ; and to yield , by combustion , extremely different results , according to the temperature at which theyhave been formed ; the stage of the process aat which they have been separated , ; and other modifying circumstances , It becomes an interesting question , whether Ooa this gases , so muhdiversified in their physical nd chemical properties , are mixtures of a : few binary compounds , with which chemists are already acquainted ; or whether , on the contrary , their elements are capable of uniting in indefinite proportions , and of composing ternary compounds of oxygen , hydrogen , and carbon , or varieties of oxy-carbureted hydrogen .
It would encroach too much on the time of the Royal Society , to enter upon this controversy .
And , as neither opinion admits , at present , of demonstrative evidence , I may be permitted , in explaining the following experiments , to assume that theory , which appears to me most probable ; viz. that the aeriform products of the distillation of vegetable substances , are mixtures of carbonic acid , carbonic ' oxide , olefiant , carbureted hydrogen , and simple hydrogen gases ; or of two or more of these in various proportions .
The analysis of these compound gases has hitherto been attempted solely by their rapid combustion with oxygen gas , in the following manner : a mixture of the inflammable gas with oxygen gas in known proportions , is admitted into a VOLTA'S Eudiometer , inflamed over mercury by the electric spark ; and the diminution ascertained .
To the remainder caustic potash or lime water is added , by which it sustains a second diminution of bulk ; and the amount of this denotes the quantity of carbonic acid formed by the combustion .
The quantity of nitrogen gas , in the oxygen employed , as well as in the residue left by potash , being determined by a fit eudiometrical test , it is easy to infer what quantity of oxygen has been absorbed by the detonation .
And as it is proved that oxygen gas sustains no change of bulk by conversion into carbonic acid , we may conclude that , after deducting from the volume of oxygen gas expended , that of the carbonic acid which has been formed , the remaining number shows hox mauch ioxygen 'has lbeen , employed in the saturation of hydrogen .
' If , for example , oo measures of carbureted:hydrogen consume 2o0:ofoxygen gas , and give 100 of carbonic acid , it : follows , that the carbonic acid holds in combination oo measures of the oxygen gas consumed ; and that the remaining hundred have been applied to the saturation of hydrogen .
In this estimate it is assumed , that the carbonhas acquired , by combustion , the whole of the oxygen necessary for its acidification , and that no part of it existed previously in the state of carbonic oxide , a proposition , in many cases , perhaps , very far from being consistent with the truth..:This , however , admits of being decided by an accurate comparison between the weight of the gases consumed and that of the products .
For the purpose of obtaining a general approximation to the nature of a combustible gas , it may be sufficient to examine its coincidence with thosethe properties of which have been already determined .
The following table exhibits the results of the combustion of the few gases , that appear entitled to be considered as distinct species .
They are deduced from the experiments of Mr. CRUIKSHANK and Mr. DALTON .
; ~- ; ;~~~~ : Vi !
~ - : .
~ loo measures , Kind of Gas .
Sp. Grav .
Takemeas .
Give carb. ' Are diminished ( air 0 looo .
) of oxygen .
acid .
by firing .
Olefant : gog 300 .
200 'z Carbonized hydrogen , fram 1 : S-lt-waters * : -* ' 600 o 200 I00 o200 1 .
, stagianti ater , Carbonic oxide 967 45 90 55 Hydrogen gas 84 50 54 The inflammability of the compound gases , and their fitness for the purpose of affording light , are directly proportionate V285 to the quantity of oxygen required for their saturation .
The oleiant ; gas , therefore , burns with the greatest brilliancy ; carbureted hydrogen gas , though inferior , affords a dense and compact flame ; but the carbonic oxide and hydrogen gas are entirely unfit to be employed as the means of artificial illumination .
In the execution of a series of experiments on the compound combustible gases , which are described in the ilth volume of Mr. NiCHOLsoN 's Philosophical Journal , I had reason to be dissatisfied with the above method of efiecting their decomposition , and to distrust the results which were obtained .
The products of the combustion of the same gas variedconsiderably in different experiments ; and , with respect to some , :it was evident that the full proportion of their carbonaceous ingredient was not oxygenised , in-consequence of the precipitation of charcoal in the act of detonation .
The quantities , also , : at can be submitted in this way to experiment , : are extremey minute ; and the inflammation of highly combustible gases is attended , as I have more than once experienced , with considerable danger from the bursting of the glass tubes .
It was desirable , therefore , to employ a process not liable to-these objections ; and after many alterations of the apparatus , contrived with this view , I at length fixed upon one , whichI shall now proceed to describe .
The principal parts of the apparatus , are two glass cylih ders , or air receivers , * bb and o , of which the large ie o ie intended to contain oxygen gas , and the small r:eone ; thihf fammable gas submitted to experiment .
They are connected by a bent glass tube s s , the diameter of which should not be less than of an inch to the upper extremity of which is cemented an iron burner , , the th fe fie of which is about of an inch , while to the lower end a socket is fixed , on which may be occasionally screwed the cock r. The receiver oo is contained in a larger glass jar n n , and is closed at the top by a brass cap:p , and stolp cock q. The oxygen gas receiver is , also , closed by a brass cap e and cockf , the lower orifice of which is.tapped internally , for the purpose of receiving a small screw at the end of the copper wire g. This wire i : in two parts , each of which screws into a moveable socket , connectng thetw , O ; !and , by this contrivance , the wire may be lengthened r shortened at pleasure .
To prepare the apparatus for use , the receiver oo is partly filled with the combustibe gas : ; and-is secured by wedges of cork v v , in thejar n n , the level of the water in the latter being regulated by open:ing the c_cks x or zx. .
The bent pipe s s , with its cock r , is screwed upon the top of the receiver , and partly immersed in the water of a pneumatic cistern , a a , so that the orifice of the burner may rise a few inches above the surface of the water .
The receive .er b bdetached from the situation in which it is represented in the drawing , is then exhausted by an air pump ; and , being filled with oxygen gas , is transferred ( its mouth bing closed during the act of removal with a piece of leather ) to the cistern a , and quickly inverted over the burner t. By a little practice , this may be done with the admission of very liettleY common air .
A transferring vessel is then screwed upon the cockf ; and a portion of oxygen gas removed for udiometiCalexamination. .
To allow room for the expansion of the oxygen gas , the water is raised by a syplhon to a proper height withlin the receiver b , as appears in the drawing .
The apparatus being thus disposed , the cockf is connected by the chain h , with the prime conductor of an electrical machine ; and a rapid succession of sparks is made to pass between the copper ball at the end of the wire g , and the orifice of the burner .
The cocks q and r being now opened , the stream of gas is kindled ; and in order to prevent the flame from playing upon the wire , the jar nn is moved a little nearer to the cistern a , which brings the point of the burner into the axis of the receiver .
At the same time , by opening the cock x , water flows into the jar n n , and finds its way into the receiver , through two small holes ww drilled near its mouth .
The combustion continues , until either the whole of the inflammable gas is consumed , or till the cocks q and r are shut .
The wedges w are removed ; the receiver oo unscrewed ; and the bent tube removed from its place It is at this moment , that the cock r is useful , by preventing the escape of the gas from the receiver b through the tube s s. The upper part of the receiver is cooled by the application of a wet sponge .
Without waiting , however , till the gas has attained the temperature of the atmosphere , a very small and sensible thermometer is introduced into it ; and the height of the mercury is noted , as soon as it becomes stationary .
The volume of the residuary gas is then observed , and is reduced by calculation , to the bulk which it would occupy at 60 ?
of FAHRENHEIT .
Either the whole , or an aliquot part of it , is removed by a transferring vessel , screwed upon the cockf , to a mercurial cistern , where the proportion of carbonic acid is determined by liquid potash .
The proportions of oxygen and nitrogen gases , ill the unabsorbed residue , are learned by agitation with sulphuret of lime , observing the precautions which have been stated by DE MARTI .
The residuary oxygen being deducted from the quantity at the outset of the experiment , shows how much oxygen has been expended in the combustion of the inflammable gas .
It is scarcely necessary to observe , that the gases are carefully reduced , at each stage of the operation , to a mean temperature and pressure , ( 60 ?
of the thermometer , and 30 inches of the barometer).* The process of combustion , as thus stated in general terms , appears sufficiently simple .
It is often , however , rendered complicated by the imperfect combustion of the inflammable gas , a part of which escapes through the orifice of the burner , eitlier wholly unaltered , or only partially burned .
As this portion is not absorbed by sulphuret of lime , it gives a fallacious appearance of an actual addition of nitrogen to the oxygen gas remaining in the receiver b. I ant unacquainted with any method of entirely obviating this difficulty ; but its amount may be diminished by an attention to certain precautions .
With this view , the pressure upon the gas , contained in the receiver o o , should , on first opening the cocks q and r , be no more than is sufficient for its gentle expulsion through the tube s s. When , however , the stream is once kiindled , the larger the flame , and the more active the combustion , within certain limits , the more completely is the gas consumed .
It is necessary , also , to stop the combustion , before it is rendered The rules observed in these calculations , are stated in my Epitome of Chemuistry , 5th edition , p. 441 , IDCCCVIII .
P p languaidi ; by the admixture of : carbonic:acid with the gas in the receiver b , : and by ; thedminished purity of the oxygen gas .
If this be not attended to , a large proportion of the inflramiable : gas , towardsthe close of the process , makes its escape unaltered into the receiver b. In general I have found , that setting out with oxygeln gas of equal purity , the more combustible the inflammable gas submitted to experiment , the miorre:m complete , is , .
its , decompositionby slow combustion .
The apparatus , therefore , is better adapted to the analysis of olefiant gas , of carbureted hydrogen gas , or of mixtures of these two , than of carbonic oxide , or any gas of which that Qoid eform sa large proportion .
-The inflammable gas , which has found its way into the receiver b , is always present in too minute a quantityto compose , with the .
residuary oxygen , after the removal of the carbonic acid , a mixture capable of beig in flamed by the electric spark .
To ascertain its precise quantity , its necessary to have re- ' course to another operation .
After trying , eudiometricaily , the quality of an aliquot part of the gas in the receiver b , let a similar aliquot part be : deprived of its carbonic acid , and then mnixed with , a portion of pure hydrogen gas , not exceeding one third : or one fourth the estimated bulk of the : oxygen which it contains .
Detonate the mixture , and observe the amount of the diminution after the explosion ; the products of the combustion ; and the quantity of oxygen gas consumed .
After subtracting , from the total expenditure of oxygen , half thei..ulkof the added hydrogen gas , the remiiaining number ' shows : how much oxygenhas been absorbed by theecombustible gas contained in the residue .
By the rule of propQrtion .
it may be : detemin-d ; ohcb iav-ic acid wld have I been produced , by the oxygenation of the whole of the cornbustible gas , and what quantity of oxygen it would have saturated .
The most obvious objection to this method of analyzing the compound gases is , that the real proportion of the products , resulting from their combustion , may perhaps be disguised , in consequence of the absorption of a part of the carbonic acid by the water , over which the experiment is made .
By frequent trials , however , I find that this is a source of error too trivial to be deserving of consideration ; and that the proportion of carbonic acid , thus generated , exceeds what is composed by the rapid combustion of the same gas over mercury , When the operator has acquired sufficient dexterity , the interval of time , between the completion of the combustion and ` the admeasurement of the residue , is too small to allow an absorption to any notable amount .
It must be observed , also , that the carbonic acid constitutes oply a small part of the residue ; ; and is , for that reason , very little acted on by water , conformable to a principle which I have explained in the Philosqphical Transactions for 18o3 , p. I74 .
I believe , therefore , that with an attention to those observances , which are equired in all delicate experiments on gases , and to the changing circumstances of temperature and pressure , this apparatus is fully adequate to the purpose for which it is intended .
It will be easy , however , for those who have the command of a sufficient quantity of mercury , to adapt the apparatus to that fluid .
As an exemplification of the method of using it , in the simplest possible case , I shall state the results of the combustion of hydrogen gas , At the outset of the experiment , there was contained in the Dr : ?
N~ ~:* 2~"~i ; ~ a~toYt.1i1 IIF 'z receiver o o , a quantity of hydrogen gas eqUal , when-reduced to a ?
meanteimperature and pressure , to 5.8 cubic inches Of these , there remained unconsumed 2.5 Hydrogen gas burned 1.3 In the receiver b were 49 cubic inches of oxygen gas , consisting of 33.5 oxygen , 15.5 nitrogen At the close of the experiment , there remained , in b , 43.5 c. 27.25 16.25 cotposed of _ Cubi , iches of oxygen gas con6 -sumed ; But -estifiating from thefirst diminution ( viz. 49--43:,51 only 5-.5 cubic inches .
of oxygen would appear to have been absorbed ; and the nitrogen gas , by eudiometrical experi ; ients , would seem to have been increased 0o.75 of an inch .
As the hydrogen gas , however , had been prepared from zinc and sulphuric acid with extreme caution , and did not contain an appreciable quantity of common air , no such addition of nitrogen could have taken place .
The apparent increase , then , may be fairly imputed to the escape of 0.75 of an inch of hydrogen gas , which is to be deducted from the 13.3 cubic inches at the outset of the experiment ; and hence the .
real quantity consumed will be 13.3.75 = 12 55 .
The true consumption , also , of oxygen gas was 5.50 + o.75 25 or pretty exactly , as it ought to be , half the bulk of the hydrogen gasj , which was actually burned .
An example of the analysis of a highly combustible species cf elastic fluid is furnished by the fbllowing experiments on the okfiant gas , obtained from alcohol and sulplluric acid .
Of his gas i.oo cubic inches , at..a mean : oi , the barometer and thermometer , were equal to 30.troy grains ; hence its specific gravity was 967 .
In the receiver o o , were contained of this gas 6.3 cub. in , Residue. .
Gas consumed 4 .
In the receiver b , were 43.4 inches of oxygen gas .
, Afte the combustion , there remained 38.2 cubic inches of mixed gases , of which 8.6 were carbonic acid .
None of the inflamable gas , which passed through the bent tube , had escaped being burned , for the quantity of gas in b , not absorbable by sulphuret of lime , so far from having been increased , -was found to ?
have sustained a trifling diminution .
The oxygen gas , which was consumed , amounted to 13.8 cubic inches ; Reducing these results to centesimal proportion , 0oo cubic inches of this gas would give 200 of carbonic acid , and absorb 325 of oxygen gas .
This experiment agrees with Mr. DALTON'S , as to the proportion of carbonic acid from the combustion Of olefiant gas , but assigns a larger consumption of oxygen .
It may be observed , however , that the specific gravity of the gas , which I employed , exceeded a little the statement of the Dutch chemists , who found its specific gravity to be 909 , common air being looo .
Having satisfied myself , by repeated experiments , of the accuracy of the results which may be thus obtained , I proceeded to the combustion of the gases from a variety of vegetable substances , and especially from those which it seemed probable might become economical sources of light .
In the present memoir , I shall describe those only , which were ade for the on coal and a few similar substances , reserving the rest for a future -communication .
Gas from Cannel Coal .
This was received in two separate portions .
Of the first product , 1oo cubic inches , corrected to a mean temperature and pressure , weighed 24.28 grains .
Hence its specific gravity was to that of atmospheric air as 783 to 1oo0 .
The second product was much lighter , ioo inches weighing only o0.4 grains , and having , therefore , the specific gravity of 335 .
The results are comprehended in the following table .
The carbonic acid , stated to have been generated by the second combustion , was formed by adding to an aliquot part of the residue , after the removal of the carbonic acid , a proportion of hydrogen gas ; detonating the mixture by the electric spark ; and proceeding as already directed .
The two first lines contain the minutes of actual experiments ; the third and fourth these results reduced to centesimal proportion .
Carb. acid Oxygen conGrav .
Cub. incheslOxyg .
gas Carb. acid. .
formed by sumed by Total oxygen Total , carb. -Cub .
inceOxGray .
gas .
Inarb .
P. Gaburned .
consumed .
generated .
second cornsecond cornconsumed .
acid formed .
bustion .
bustion .
783 7.3 i6.5 8.3 19 0.9 1 7.4 10 .
335 9.8 9.4 4.8 0o 9,4 4.8 783 00 222z 113.7 2.6 IZ 234 139.7 335 1 o0 96 49 oo 96 49 : The early product of the gas from cannel coal , before being washed with lime water or caustic potash , is a mixture of several different gases , viz. carbonic acid , sulphureted hydrogen , olefiant , and a fourth , which is either a gas sui generis , or a mixture of carbureted hydrogen , and carbonic oxide .
To ascertain the proportion of these gases in any mixture , is a problem of some difficulty , Sulphureted hydrogen and olefiant gases experience , it is well known , an immediate condensation , when mingled with oxy-muriatic acid gas and in this way they may be separated from carbonic acid .
Again , sulphureted hydrogen and carbonic acid are absorbed by liquid potash , which has no action on olefiant gas .
-If , therefore , two equal portions of the gas from coal be mixed with oxy-muriatic gas , the one in its recent state , the other after being washed with potash , the condensation of the former will be found to exceed that of the washed portion .
By .
the combined use of these agents , we may attain an approximation , at least , to the proportions in which carbonic acid , olefiant , and sulphareted hydrogen gas are mingled with the aeriform product of coal .
The rule may be stated as follows ; to a measured quantity of oxy-muriatic acid gas , contained in a graduated tube , add twice its bulk of the recent coal gas , and at the expiration of one or two minutes observe the diminution which has taken place .
Wash an equal quantity with .
caustic potash ; note the loss ; and submit the residue to the action of oxy-muriatic acid as before .
The second diminuts e yi gs ... . .
s the tion , ths effected by oxymuria4ic gas , divided by 2.2 , gives the proporion of olefiant gas .
Deduct this absorption from the first .
and , dividing the remainder by 1.8 , we obtain the quantity of sulphureted hydrogen .
Lastly , to know the quantity of carbQlnl -acid gas , sub ; stract , from , the diminl:ticon effected by o , amsh , t othea s-ul:phutreed hydrcgen gas An exama , ple , taken from actual experjiment , will best ex-laia the application of this rule .
One fhundred -measuresof : the.:firs , t product of gas froicannel coal lost , by agitation witih liquid potash , 9.7 measuores The remainder , being mingled with one fourth its bulk of oxy-muriatic acid gas , the mixture lost 10.4 measures .
This diminution , 10.4 , divided by 2.2 , gives 4.9 for the proportion of olefiant gas .
But loo measures of the unwashed gas sustained , by admixture with oxy-muriatic acid , a diminution of 2o measures .
Now , deducting , from this diminution , that occasioned by the condensation of olefiant gas , ( viz. 20 10.4 , ) there remain 9.6 , which , divided by 1.8 , gives 5.3 for the proportion of sulphureted hydrogen gas .
And the diminution by potash ( 9.7 ) -5 .
gives 4.4 for the proportion of carbonic acid gas .
Hence 1oo measures of the first product of gas from cannel coal contain , i. Of inflammable gas , not affected by the foregoing agents J 2 .
Of sulphureted hydrogen gas , 5.3 3 .
Of olefiant gas 4.9 4 .
Of carbonic acid gas 44 100 The proportion of common air , in the foregoing specimen of gas , and in all cases when care was taken to exclude it , was too small to deserve being taken into the account , not appearing , by the test of nitrous gas , to exceed 1 per cent. The following table exhibits the composition of gas from various kinds of coal .
In the last column , under the term inflammable gas , is comprehended that portion , which is neither suddenly condensed by oxy-muriatic acid gas , nor absorbed by potash .
A name more descriptive cannot be applied to it , because it varies essentially in different cases , and the propQrilon of its components is still matter of doubt .
TABLE I- .
297 J , Et~~ " " One hundred measures consisted of " No. of the I Kind of Coal .
N. product .
Sulph .
Hydr .
Carb. acid .
Olefiant .
Inflam .
_.u , p_ _ _y_r_ Ca ac.d x 5.3 4.4 4.9 85.4 Wigan cannel .
{ 2a 1.8 o. 98.2 Wednesbury , I 4.9 34 0 91.7 ; Staffordshire .
2 o. 2.8 o 97 .
Newcastle on ' I29 2.98 7 2 .
91.6 Tyne .
t2 2 .
2 I.7 0 961 [ I x3 2.7 o 94.3 Newcastle , : Star2 66 fordshire .
343oloo 98.6 Middleton , near f2II2 x.+ 1.7 o 96.9 Leeds 1 98 3 ' o0 98 .
- : -I 3 ; .3 3 33.2 2,5 92 2 .
1.1 0 96.9 Black Mine near !
3 2 .
o , 97 Manchester , 4 0.5 2z o 98*3 --5 030o I. o 98.8 _ 6 .
6o o'o oo 0F I.I 7o 97.3 20 o.7 o 98.3 Merthyr , Glamor3 o.6 o 98.4 ganshire .
4 I. o0 985 4 --- : .
; 5o ' I. 'o ' 99 6o o. oo 1 Native coal tar .
13 6 15 66 Caoutchouc .
o49 17 78 .
After separating the sulphureted hydrogen and carbonic acid gases by agitation with liquid potash , the residue , consisting of the inflammable gas mixed with the proportion of olefiant gas produced along with it , was submitted to combustion .
The following table shews the average results of a number of these experiments , TABLE II .
Weight of loo cubic inches Kind of Coal .
No. of the loo cubic inches , Spec. Grav .
product .
( There .
600 .
Bar .
30 .
) ( Air looo .
) consume give carbonic " oxyg .
gas .
acid .
, Wigan cannel , I ; 24.28 Grs , 783 234 139.7 { ( g a2 ; I ?
o4 335 96 49 Newcastle Stafford ; , f , 57 G32 I959i6 sh ; re , , n. 2 177 7570 I65 80 FI 20.7 , 670 90 00oo Leeds , 2 15.i 487 lost by accident .
0:~~ : : -3 9.8 3165 42 fI 19.4 627 ]86 97 s -- : 7 -i : | : 2 15 484 137 65 iBlack-Mine , Lanca3 11.3 364 100 50 : shire , 4o 322 90 47 5 9.5307 85 45 6 80 40 : I~ 1 12 387 I7 62 99.5 307 90 47:Merthyr , 386 75 39 4 5.9 19o 60 31 5.8 187 57 26 , 6 5.5 I77 50 20 oal tar , 242 780 233 150 Caoutchouc .
-204 121 An attentive examination of the results , contained in both the tables , suggests the following general remarks .
1 .
The olefiant gas is a very sparing product of the distillation of pit-coal .
It is found only in the first portions , and even of these it does not compose more than 5 per cent. Its quantity , however , is very much influenced by the temperature employed .
This remark , indeed , may be extended to all the aieriform products of coal ; insomuch that from equal weights of the same coal it is diffcult to obtain by different operations conducted on a small scale , products which are the same either in quantity or quality .
The gas from Coalbrookedale tar , and that from Caozutchouc , have a larger proportion of olefiant gas , which in them amounts to about one-sixth their bulk .
n. Sulphureted hydrogen gas is , also , most abundantly produced at the early stages of the distillation .
Its proportion then varies from i to 5 per cent ; and towards the close of the process it disappears entirely .
It increases the illuminating , power of the coal gas ; but is by no means a desirable product ; since it yields by combustion , a gas ( the sulphurous acid ) which is extremely offensive and irritating to the lungs .
By the distillation of coal , more sulphureted hydrogen is proproduced , than is discovered among the aeriform products ; for a part , uniting with the ammonia which is generated at the same moment , forms sulphuret of ammonia , a compound wh-ich I have found among the condensed products .
3 .
Carbonic acid gas , like the two preceding ones , appears only at an early stage of the process , and in small proportion , i never amounting to 5 per cent. A portion of this gas , also , unites with ammonia , and hence carbonate of ammonia is found in the condensed fluid .
4 .
The gas from coal undergoes a gradual diminution of specific gravity and combustibility , from the commenncement to the close of the process .
This is best shown by inspecting the results of the experiments on the Black-Mine and Merthyr coa gas in Table II .
because they were reserved in a greater number of separate portions than usual .
The progression wxould , perhaps , have been more regular , in these as well as In the other instances , if much of the gas had not been allowed to escape , in consequence of the immense quantity which was produced .
The specific gravity of the coal gas appears to afford &amp; a measure of itsfitness for illumination , sufficiently accurate for practical uses ; but does not bear an exact correspondence to the chemical properties of the gas , as ascertained by combustion It may be remarked , also by comparing the two last columns of the second table , that the carbonic acid produced does not always bear the same proportion to the oxygen expended .
Thus the first product of gas frOmncannel coal combines with 234 measures of oxygen gas ; and gives 139.7 of carbonic acid .
But the gas from coal tar , with only an equal consumption of oxygen , yields 15o measures of carbonic acid : .
5 .
The aeriform product of coal does not precisely answer to the characters of any one of the combustible gases , with which we are acquainted .
The first product , however , of the distillation of common pit coal , after being washed with potash , approaches very nearly in its properties to carbureted hydrogen gas .
The gases , which surpass this in specific gravity , are mixtures of carburetted hydrogen with olefiant gas , and perhaps a small proportion of carbonic oxide .
The lighter gases , in addition to carbureted hydrogen , probably contain a , variable proportion of hydrogen gas and a small quantity of carbonic oxide .
The extreme levity of some of the products , especially of the gas from Merthyr coal , cannot be explained on any other supposition .
6 .
The products of the combustion of a cubic foot of coalgas , of medium quality , viz. of the specific gravity 622 , ( such as the first products from Newcastle on Tyne coal ) may be stated as follows : Grains , A cubic foot , at a mean of the barometer and thermometer , 83335 By combustion , it yields 817.3 grains of carbonic acid , the carbon in which may be estimated * at 233.7 Grains of hydrogen in a cubic foot of coal gas 998 But 99.8 grains of hydrogen are equivalent to the saturation of 554.9 grains of oxygen , with which they form 654.7 grain ; s of water .
Hence the oxygen consumed ought from calcula ; tion to be 817.3 233.7 = 573.6 + 554.9 = 112 8 And the quantity actually consumed appears by experiment to be 1110 .
Error 17.7 The difference , in this example , between experiment and calculation is not greater , than , in such delicate processes , may always be expected .
A part of the deficiency in the oxygen actually consumed may be ascribed , also , to a small portion of the inflammable gas being already in the state of carbonic oxide .
Without repeating the particulars of a similar calculation made on gas of inferior quality , I shall annex a comparative statement of the specific gravities and composition of the good and inferior gases .
A Cubic Foot Oxygen Gas Gives Source of the Gas .
Weight of a consists of consumed by ; .
A _ , Cubic Foot .
Carbon .
Hydr .
a Cubic Foot .
Carb. Acid Water Newcastle coal 333.5gr.23g.7j99.8 1110.3 817.36{1 Ditto , last product , ib9.3 1.5157.8 560 .
0 38 The inferior gas , also , probably contains carbonic oxide ; for the quantity of oxygen gas , actually consumed , will be found , on calculation , less than it ought to be , if the carbon were not already combined with a portion of oxygen .
The quantity of water , which was generated by combustion , was not determined experimentally , but is merely estimated .
It must be acknowledged that the decomposition of the inflammable gases cannot lead to unquestionable results , until the proportion of water , produced by their combustion , be also accurately ascertained .
With the view of effecting this , I have already spent much time , and employed many contrivances , none of which have satisfactorily answered the purpose for which they were intended .
7 .
There appears to be a considerable difference in the specific gravity and combustibility of gas from various specimens of coal , even when taken at similar periods of the distillation .
The coal from Merthyr in South Wales , which burns without flame or smoke , yields a gas which contains , in an equal volume , scarcely half as much combustible matter as the gas from Wigan cannel .
This will probably be found to be the case with respect to all coal of similar quality , among which may be reckoned the Kilkenny coal .
The most important difference among the varieties of this mineral , connected with their application as sources of light , consists in the quantity of sulphureted hydrogen gas , which is mixed with their aeriform products ; and it unfortunately happens that the coal , otherwise best adapted to this purpose , yields generally the largest proportion of this offensive gas .
The only effectual method of purifying the coal gas from sulphureted hydrogen , on the large scale of manufacture , will probably be found to -~ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P J. --LJ-~~~~~~~~~~~~~t consist in agitation with quicklime and water , composing a mixture of the consistence of cream .
Simple washing with water by no means effects the complete separation .
In the experiments which were made on the products of the distillation of coal , I purposely neglected the amount and analysis of the condensible fluids , because they cannot be advantageously ascertained by the same operation with the elastic ones .
They may also be much better determined on the large scale of manufacture , than by limited experiments .
For the same reason I was not solicitous to measure even the aeriform fluids ; and on this subject , I believe , more accurate information has been communicated by Mr. MURDOCH , than it was in my power to acquire .
Manchester , May I9 , iSo8 .

