VII .
On a Method f Freeing at a distance .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M. D. Sec. R. S. Read December i7 , 181 .
1THAT a fluid , from which a portion is evaporated , becomes colder in consequence of the heat absorbed by that part which assumes the gaseous state : that fluids rise in the state of vapour at a lower temperature when the pressure of the atmosphere is removed , and consequently may be cooled to a lower degree by evaporation in vacuo than in the open air , are facts too well known to need confirmation before the Members of this Society by any new experiments .
Nevertheless , a new mode of applying the most established principles may deserve to be recorded , if it assist the illustration of them , and be instructive from the novelt of the view in which it exhibits a certain class of phenomena ; although no immediate use be at present proposed , to which it can be applied with advantage .
If an attempt were made to freeze water by evaporation , without other means than the vacuum of an air-pump , the pump must be of the best construction , and though the quantity of water be small , the receiver must be of large dimensions , otherwise its capacity would set too confined a limit to the quantity of vapour that will rise , and consequently to the degree of cold produced .
Supposing the commonly received estimates to be correct , as to the quantities of heat , that become latent in the conversion of ice into water , and f water into steam , being 14o ?
and 96o ?
respectively , we should find the following statement to be not far from the truth .
If e2 grains of water were taken at the temperature of 62 ?
, and if one grain of this were converted into vapour by absorbing 960o , then the whole quantity would lose 96 = 30 ?
, and thus be reduced to the temperature of 3e ? .
If from the 81 grains , which still remain in the state of water , 4 grains more were converted into vapour by absorbing 9600 ; then the remaining 27 grains must have lost Aof 960 ?
_ 140 ?
, which is rather more than sufficient to convert the whole into ice .
In an experiment , conducted upon a small scale , the porportional quantity evaporated did not much differ from this estimate .
If it be also true , that water in assuming the gaseous state , even at a low temperature , expands to 18oo times its former bulk ; then in attempting to freeze the small quantity of water abovementioned , it would be requisite to have a dry vacuum with the capacity of 5x 1800 , or equal to that of 9000 grains of water .
As a means of avoiding the necessity of so large a vacuum , Mr. LESLIE had recourse to the ingenious expedient of employing an extensive surface of sulphuric acid , for the purpose of absorbing the vapour generated in the course of the experiment , and by that means contrived to freeze much larger quantities of water , than could otherwise have been done , and by a far less laborious process .
But even in this method the labour is not inconsiderable , and the apparatus , though admirably adapted to the purpose for which it is designed , is large and costly .
I have therefore thought the little instrument I am about to describe may possess some interest , as affording a readier and more simple mode of exhibiting so amusing and instructive an experiv meant .
Let a glass tube be taken , having its internal diameter about .
of an inch , with a ball at T. A each extremity of about one inch diameter ; and let the tube be bent to a right angle at the distance of half an inch from each ball .
One of these bails should contain a little* water , and the remaining cavity should be as perfect a vacuum as can readily be obtained .
The mode of effecting this is well known to those who are accustomed to blow glass .
One of the balls is made to terminate in a capillary tube , and when water admitted into the other has been boiled over a lamp for a considerable time , till all the air is expelled , the capillary extremity , through which the steam is still issuing with violence , is held in the flame of the lamp till the force of the vapour is so far reduced , that the heat of the flame has power to seal it hermetically .
When an instrument of this description has been successfully exhausted , if the ball that is empty be immersed in a freezing mixture of salt and snow , the water in the other ball , though at the distance of two or three feet , , will be frozezl solid in the course of a very few minutes .
The vapour contained in the empty ball is condensed by the common opera* If the ball be more than half full , it will be liable to burst by the expansion of water in freezing .
tion of cold , and the vacuum produced by this condensation gives opportunity for a fresh quantity to arise from the oppo .
site ball , with proportional reduction of its temperature .
According to a theory that does not admit of positive cold , we should represent the heat of the warmer ball to be the agent in this experiment , generating steam as long as there remains any excess of heat to be conveyed .
But if we would express the cause of its abstraction , we must say that the cold mixture is the agent , and may observe , in this instance , that its power of freezing is transferred to a distance , by what may be called the negative operation of steam .
The instrument , by which this is effected , may aptly be called a Cryophorus , which correctly , expresses its office of frost-bearer-

