XVII .
Continuation of Experiments for investiating the CausF of coloured concentric Rings , and other , Appearances of a similar Nature .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F. R. S. Read March 23 , i809 .
IN the first part of this paper , I have pointed out a variety of methods that will give us coloured concentric rings between two glasses of a proper figure applied to each other , and it has been proved that only two surfaces , namely , those that are in contact with each other , are essential to their formation ; it will now be necessary to enlarge the field of prismatic phenomena , by showing that their appearance in the shape of rings has been owing to our having only used spherical curves to produce them .
35 .
Cylindrical Curves produce Streaks .
AM soon as it occurred to me , that the cause of the figure of a lie certain prismatic appearance must be looked for in the nature of the curvature of one or both of the surfaces , that are essential to its production , I was prepared to expect that if a spherical curve , when applied to a plain surface of glass , produces coloured rings , a cylindrical one applied to the same would give coloured lines or streaks .
To put this to the proof of an experiment , I ground one side of a plate of glass into a cylindrical curve , and after having given it a polish , I laid a slip of plain glass upon it , and soon perceived a beautiful set of coloured streaks .
The broadest of them was at the line of contact , and on each side they were gradually narrower and less bright .
The colours in the streaks were similar to those in the rings , and they were in the same manner changeable by pressure as in them .
Their order was likewise the same , if we reckon from the line of contact , as with rings we do from the center ; so that these streaks differed in no respect from rings , except in their linear instead of circular arrangement .
When the cylindrical surface was laid upon a plain slip of glass , the same streaks were seen as in the former experiment .
They were of a lively red and green colour , and I saw at least ten , eleven , or twelve on each side of the line of contact .
Metalline surfaces had the same effect , for when the cylindrical surface of glass was laid on a plain metalline mirror , I had red , orange , yellow , green , and blue streaks .
In the same manner a plain slip of glass placed upon a polished part of a brass cylinder of a"-inch in diameter , produced also coloured streaks .
The combination of two cylindrical surfaces has an effect on the streaks , which is similar to that which the contact of two spherical ones has on the rings ; for when I placed the cylindrical surface of glass longitudinally upon the polished part of the brass cylinder , the streaks were contracted as rings would have been by the application of two spherical cur s to each other .
s6o Cylindrical and spherical Surfaces combined produce coloured elliptical Rings .
The theory which suggests to us that the particular figure of every prismatic appearance between glasses depends on the curvature of the surfaces which are in contact , is still farther confirmed when spherical and cylindrical curves are applied to each other ; for these , accordingly , should give elliptical rings ; and when I tried the experiment , by laying a e6-inch double convex lens upon the cylindrical surface of my plate of glass , it produced a coloured elliptical central part , encompassed with gradually vanishing rings of the same figure .
By changing the focal length of the lens , I could alter the proportion of the conjugate to the transverse axes of these elliptical rings at pleasure .
A lens of 55 inches gave ellipses that were much flattened , and one of 5 inches gave them nearly circular .
37 .
Irregular Curves produce irregular Figures .
The modifying power of surfaces may be further established by such as have no regular figure ; for these ought to give irregular prismatic phenomena , and this was fully proved by the following experiment .
I took a large piece of mica which had a very glossy but irregular surface , and when a 34-inch double convex lens was placed upon a small ridge of it , several pretty straight streaks might be seen , but wherever the ridge was waving the streaks were following the same direction .
In some places the mica gave irregular , coloured arcs , that were concave to some distant centre ; and in others , the various contorted figures , that were to be seen , exceeded all the imaginary forms which the most inventive fancy can paint .
The flexibility of mica also gave room for using different degrees of pressure , by which means a continual change of figure and succession of prismatic colours was produced .
When I laid a piece of this mica upon a cylinder , and placed a plain slip of glass or double convex lens upon it , all its irregularities were modified into disfigured streaks with the former , and distorted ellipses with the latter .
Experiments of a similar nature were made upon the irregular surface of Island crystal and other substances , which all gave the same result .
38 .
Curved Surfaces are required for producing the coloured Appearances at present under Consideration .
It has already been seen , in the first part of this paper , that spheiical curves give circular rings , and I have now shown that cylindrical forms produce streaks ; that a combination of spherical and cylindrical curvatures give elliptical rings , and that all sorts of variegated coloured phenomena are made visible by surfaces , which are irregularly and variously curved ; these experiments prove in the fullest manner that the curvature of surfaces is the cause of the appearance , as well as of the slape of the coloured phenomena which are produced .
For if we can invariably predict , from the nature of the curves we employ in an experiment , what will be the appearance and form of the colours that will be seen , it certainly must prove the efficacy of these curvatures in the production of such phenomena .
This will receive additional confirmation in the following article , which shows that Coloured Appearances cannot be produced between the plain Surfaces of two parallel Pieces of Glass applied to one another .
As the production and modification of the figure of the coloured appearances , that have hitherto been considered , has in the last article been ascribed to curved surfaces , it will be necessary to examine whether such phenomena may not also be seen between the plain surfaces of two parallel peces of glass applied to each other directly in contact , or inclined towards each other in some certain extremely small angle .
The later of these cases has already been considered in the $ist article of the first part of this paper , where I have shown that two plain surfaces , let the angle of the wedge of air between them be aa small as you please , will not give coloured streaks .
I have indeed seen two thin plain piecs of glass , with a slip of platina of an extraordinary thinness betveen them at one end tied together , which showed some streaks near the place where the glasses were in contact , but when I removed the thread that bound them together , the streaks vanished , which proves that the glasses had been constrained , and thus had probably assumed some curvature at the point of contact .
I have also tried two flat surfaces of glass , which were so perfect that no colour could be perceived unless they were by unequal pressure somewhat disfigured , and when that was the case arge flashy coloured appearances became visible , and their configuration followed very evidently the stress which I laid upon the different parts of the glasses .
It is however unnecessary to dwell on proofs , that streaks cannot be seen when two plain parallel pieces of glass are Mm s applied to each other , as it will hereafter be shown that wLen the incumbent plain glass is not of a parallel thickness , coloured phenomena may be rendered visible between two perfectly plain surfaces , although no force or strain should be used to produce a fallacious , curved , contact .
40 .
Of the Production of coloured Appearances .
Hitherto I have only considered the coloured rings which Sir ISAAC NEWTON has pointed out , and have shown , at the end of the 28th article , that no more than two surfaces are essential to their formation .
It has now also been proved , that the configuration of the coloured phenomena arises from the curvature of one or both of the two essential surfaces .
From these principles it will be seen , that we are to distinguish between the production of the colours and that of their configuration when produced .
By the experiments that have been given , the cause of the configuration is laid open to our view ; but the production and arrangement of the colours remain to be investigated .
The leading feature of the arrangement of the colours of the rings is prismatic ; that is to say their order is red , orange , yellow , green , blue , indigo , and violet ; in order , therefore , to enter minutely into the subject , I shall have recourse to some prismatic experiments .
It will be necessary here to mention , that the proposed enumeration of the modifications of light , which was intended to have been given in this part of my paper , is grown to such an extent by the number of experiments I have made upon the subject , that its introduction would occasion a long interruption of the present subject ; and although undoubtedly the action of bodies and surfaces on light would be better understood , if all the modifications wherein colours are produced had been before us , yet as the experiments I have to relate may be made plain , either by referring to modifications that are sufficiently known , or by explaining what is not already familiar , I shall postpone the intended enumeration to some future opportunity , and confine myself at present to a few remarks relating to them .
The colours contained in white light may be separated by reflection , as well as by refraction , and what is perfectly to my present purpose , the order , in which the colours thus produced are arranged , is the same in both cases ; each of these principles therefore may cause coloured appearances , which the particular figure of the surfaces we use will mould into different configurations .
Sir ISAAC NEWTON , for instance , has shown that the rays of light will be separated , by what he calls a different reflexibility , when they fall on the base of a prism ; the violet being reflected first , and the red last.* By this property of the differently coloured rays , he has explained a very remarkable phenomenon , which is that in a prism , when exposed in the open air , and when the eye is properly placed " the spectator will see a bow of a blue colour."t From the little the author has said of this bow , it may be supposed that he did not examine it farther than was required for his purpose ; it will therefore be necessary to enter more fully into the subject .
t See the illustration of the gth experiment in the first book of NEWTON'S Optics , page 46 .
t See the i6th experiment in the second part of the first book , page 145 , s65 Paiticulars relating to the Newtonian prismatic blue Bow .
The Newtonian blue bow may very conveniently be examined , when a right angled prism is laid down on a table before an open window .
The eye being then brought to a convenient altitude , and pretty near the side of the prism , we see in it a bow , which from the predominant colour may be called blue .
It contains some green followed by blue , indigo , and violet .
A very faint red , orange , and yellow may also be perceived above the greenish colour ; but these belong not to the blue bow , and have not been noticed by the author .
Their appearance will hereafter be accounted for .
To analyse this blue bow more particularly , let us admit that the colours , which give it the general appearance of what may be called blue , consists of half the green , and of all the blue , indigo , and violet rays , which are reflected while the other half of the green , the yellow , orange , and red are transmitten d Then the angle of obliquity , at which this separation of the colours will happen , in consequence of the different refrangibility of the differently coloured rays assigned by NEWTON , will be 49 ? ?
46 ' 1X",5 .
Let ABCD E , Plate XII .
Fig. 1 , be rays of light movin within glass in such directions , as to fall on the interior base FG upon the points a p3 , S. Then , if it be required that these rays after reflection from the base should meet in the point H , and form the blue bow , the angles AaG , B3G , CyG , DS G , and EaG must be respectively equal to 49 46 ' 12",5 ; 490 49 20 " 4 , 9 55 ' 33"),6 ; 49 ? ?
59 ' 41,4 ; and 50 7 54 " which will give the angles o H , H , yH 3 , H s , equal to 3 ' 7",5 , 6 ' t13,6 , 4 ' 7",8 , and 8 ' 16",6 , making in the whole the angle subtended by the bow HE 21 ' 41t,5.* For in consequence of the different reflexibility of the differently coloured rays the violet , indigo , blue , and faintest half of the green rays will be reflected between M and A , if they fall on that space in any angle between the above mentioned ones contained between A caG and BA G ; and will therefore meet at HI , and form the greenish blue part of the bow .
The red , orange , yellow , and the brightest half of the green rays , on the contrary being less reflexible , will be transmitted through the base between a and 3 , and by refraction pass in proper angles into the air .
The letters vib--2g , which in the figure are placed within the space aH 3 , denote the reflected colours , and !
gy or put under the base between a and A are the initials of the transmitted colours ; and in the same manner the reflections and transmissions which must happen between Gy , y , and &amp; E are expressed by the letters over the base for the former , and under it for the latter .
The order of the colours of the blue bow , when it is seen at H , is perfectly explained by the letters in the reflected part ; and the eye must be placed , for seeing it , at the mean obliquity between the angles AaG and E GC , which is 49 ? ?
57 ' " ,3 In order to conform this account of the blue bow , to the manner in which it was viewed by NEWTON , I have preserved his way of ascribing the separation of the rays to ethi-r difErent reflelxibiiity , which however is merely the effect of their different refrangibility .
The angles at which the rays that constitute the blue bow are separated from the rest , may very properly be called critical , and the effect , which is the consequence of the oblique incidences that have been given , may with equal propriety be called a critical separation of the difierently coloured rays of light .
42 .
Account of a prismatic red Bow .
I must now introduce a prismatic appearance , which on account of its similarity with the Newtonian blue bow , from which it only differs in colour , I have called , a prismatic red bow .
It consists of red , orange , yellow , and some green rays ; and the red colour being upon the whole very predominant , it may not improperly be called a red bow .
It is not produced by the Newtonian different reflexibility of the differently coloured rays of light , but owes its origin to a modification which takes effect at the outside of the prism at very oblique angles of incidence , and may be called a different intromissibility ; but this , like the Newtonian different reflexibility , is only the consequence of the different refrangibility of light .
To see the red bow , an observer should place himself in n:e open air , and standing with his back within a few feet of some wall or building , hold the side of an equilateral prism flat over his eyes , and look upwards to an altitude of about o0 ?
at the heavens ; he will then see a beautiful arch of a deep red colour , succeeded by a bright orange and yellow , with a considerable portion of green on the inside .
The comparative darkness of the building behind will show the light in front to the best advantage .
It is also to be observed , that all experiments on prismatic bows succeed best , when the heavens are totally overcast with an uniform cloudiness .
To analyze the production of this bow , let ABC DE , Fig. 2 , Plate XII .
be rays of light moving in air , in such directions as to fali on the exterior base FG , of a piece of glass , upon the points , cyts ; the n , if it be required that these rays , after their intromnission into the glass should meet in the point H and form the red bow , the argles Aa H , Bp H , Cy H , D [ H d , and E.e H , must be respectively equal to 130g ? ?
9 ' 33",6 ; 1 33 ? ?
4o0 33 " 2 ; 1g4 ? ?
29 ' 28"s ; 135 ? ?
36',13 ' " ; and i36 ?
lo ' 38 " , o ; from which we have the angles APB , A yC , A D , and as , which a red ray would make were it to pass out of glass into air , , equtal to 0 ' 15 ' 45 " ,5 ; O"5 ; 19 ' 175 ; and 5 ?
56 " 50",5 Now by the laws of the different refrangibility of light , the red rays are intromissible at o , when by refraction they imake the angle IH F= 49 30 ' 26"4 ; but the orange cannot be intromitted any where betweein and p with any ef'ect on the red bow , since it is only at 13 , where the angle H , G F is 49 ?
g ) e1'8 , that they can enter the glass so as to co me to the eye at H. The yellow rays will , for the same reason , be efficiently intromritted only at y , where they will make the angle HyF 49 " 38 ' 2",3 , and the brightest half of the green rays will find an efficient entrance from S to e , since the smallest angle of their intromission HF is 49 ? ?
43 ' 4,3 , and the angle HE F , which ternmiates the red bow , is 49 ? ?
46 ' i " 5 .
The arrangement of the colours of this bow will be seen , as it was in the blue bow , from the letters placed above the base , which denote those that are intromitted so as to come to the eye ; the rest of the colour-making rays , which cannot come in that direction , being marked by letters placed under the base .
The DCCCIX , N In whole angle of the red bow aH is 15 ' 46 " , i , and the mean obliquity of the eye at H is 49 ? ?
38 ' 19,5 .
In the calculation of both the bows , the situation of the eye at H has been determined , as it would be , were the rays to remain in glass ; but as they will be refracted by the side of a prism , when they come out of it , proper computations must be made not only of the place of the eye in air , but also of the angle which the bow will subtend ; for this will be found to be considerably different in different prisms ; those that have large refracting angles will magnify the bows more , and require the eye to be nearer than others that have smaller angles .
These bows may be examined at leisure , by projecting them upon a white ground in the following manner : In a dark room , by a reflecting apparatus , I admitted a horizontal beam of the solar light through an opening of about an inch and a half in diameter .
The formation of the bows requiring scattered light , o I covered the opening with a piece of glass evenly roughned on both sides .
Then , with an intention to obtain a projection of the blue bow , I placed a prism having one angle of 91 ?
and the other two nearly equal , close to the emeried surface , and turned it upon its axis till the angle of obliquity of the scattered rays , that fell on one Side of the prism , was proper for the required critical separation of the coloured rays .
The obliquity of the middle ray with the base , for this purpose , it has been shown , must be 49* 57 ' 3-3In this position the interior critical separation of the prismatic colours taking place , the blue part , namely the violet , indigo , blue , and about one half of the green rays were ?
Ste the first paragraph of the 46th article of this paper .
reflected , and passing through the opposite side of the prism projected the blue bow upon the ceiling of the room .
The colours may there be conveniently seen ; but as this bow is composed of the least luminous rays of the prismatic spectrum , it requires considerable attention to perceive the faintest of them .
The green and blue are most visible , and byreceiving the bow upon a screen of white paper held at the most favour , able distance , the fainter colours , when the illumination is very bright may also be perceived .
In order then to project also the red bow , I turned the prism upon its axis till the scattered light fell with a proper obliquity on the base of it ; the angle required for this purpose , it has been shown , must be from o " o ' o " to 5 56 ' o5"5 ; the side of the prism , which is turned towards the opening , should be covered with a slip of pasteboard to prevent any light from entering it .
In this situation , I saw a very bright arch containing red , orange , and yellow projected at some distance backwards upon the ceiling ; that part of the green which no doubt was also transmitted , was lost in the brightness which is to be seen within the bow , for the same reason that the faint colours of the blue bow can only with great difficulty , if at all , be perceived ; namely , that they join the dark inside of the bow .
For NEWTON has proved that the space beyond the convex part of the blue bow must be bright , and that beyond the concave dark ; but in the red bow , as my theory will show , we have that on the convex dark , and on the concave bright .
This experiment therefore proves , that here , by the gradual intromission of the differently coloured rays , a criti .
cal separation takes place on the outside of the prism , similar to that which by reflection happens in the blue bow at the in_ Nn e side ; and by which , in the present case , the red part of the prismatic spectrum , that is , the red , orange , yellow , and some of the green , can only reach the eye .
43 .
Of a sudden Chaige of the Colours of the Bows .
It has been shown that the red bow should be seen nearly in the same place where the Newtonian blue bow is visible .
For in the 41st article the place of the eye , for seeing the blue bow in the prism of 1oo degrees , was determined to be at an obliquity of 49 ? ?
57 ' g",3 ; and with the red bow , and in the same prism , it has been shown that the eye must be placed at the obliquity of 49g 38 ' 19 , .
The difference is oily 8 ' 43",8 , and by the following experiments it will be found , that both the bows may actually be seen nearly in the same part ofevery prism ; and that the direction of the light , by which we see either the blue or the red bow , determines which of the two will be visible .
To prove this , let a right angled prism be laid down on a sheet of white paper before a window , and when the eye is placed in the proper situation for seeing a reflected blue bow , we may instantly transform it into a transmitted red one , by covering the side of the prism which is towards the incident light with a slip of pasteboard ; for by stopping the direct light , which before fell on the base of the prism , and was there reflected , we then see the bow by light intromitted from the paper through the base , which , as has been explained , will be red .
With proper managem nent we may have the bow half red and half blue ; bluein the middle with red sides , or red in the middle with blue sides ; which appearances it willnot be required to explain any farter , especially after what has already been said in the i8th article of the first part of this paper of the change of the colours of rings .
When we have before us a bow that is half blue and half red , it will be seen that both taken together contain all the prismatic colours in their regular order of refrangibility .
It will now also appear that the faint red , orange , and yellow , which I have said are to be perceived above the blue bow* may arise either from an imperfectly transmitted red bow , which always lies concealed under the Newtonian blue one , or perhaps more probably from the partial reflection of the red , orange , and yellow rays , many of which will come to the eye notwithstanding they are also copiously transmitted.t According to my account of the red bow , it ought to be seen in the prism a little above the blue one , and this is also f:urther confirmed by any one of the experiments in which we have some part of each bow in view at the same time , for then the relative situation of the two bows will be visible .
Similar experiments may be made by candle light upon either of the bows ; for when a sheet of white paper is pinned against a wall , that it may reflect the light of a candle placed upon a table about three or four inches from the paper , we may then see the blue bow in a prism placed upon a dark ground before the reflecting paper ; and the green colour , which it is not very easy to perceive distinctly in daylight , will here be very visible , and the more so if we use an equilateral -* See the first paragraph of the 4Ist article .
t In my modifications of light I have proved , by undeniable experiments , that within a prism as well as on the outside of it the rays of all the colours are equally refexible , and that a critical separation of them only takes place at those atgles where by refraction a ray cannot be transmitted .
prism instead of a right angled one .
When the reflecting paper is removed from the wall and laid under the prism , that the light may then be thrown upwards and transmitted through the base , we see a bow of a lively red colour .
Before I can introduce more intricate phenomena , it will be necessary to advert to some other particulars relating to these bows .
44 ' Of Streaks and other Phenomena produced from the prismatic blue and red Bows .
It has been remarked in the 4oth article , that the production of colours and their configuration when produced are owing to different causeS ; this will now be confirmed by an experiment .
Scattered rays , when they fall on a prism will by a critical separation of the colours , produce both the blue and the red bows , and these coloured appearances when produced may be modified into streaks , circular rings , and other forms , by the configurating power of surfaces .
When a plain glass or metalline mirror is laid under the base of a right angled prism in which we see the blue bow , the contact of the two plain surfaces will immediately produce a great number of coloured streaks .
They will be found to be parallel to the bow , most of them within and some just under it .
They may be seen without any lens , merely by looking into the prism with the eye pretty close to the surface through which we see the blue bow .
This experiment proves that plain surfaces , though they cannot produce colours , have a power of modifying and multiplying them when produced .
As I shall have occasion hereafter to be more particular , I shall now only mention that when we lay a spherical surface , such as an object glass , under the prism it will immediately give us several sets of innumerable concentric coloured rings ; and , as will now be readily expected , a cylindrical surface placed under the prism will give a number of lenticular appearances , such as are contained between the intersections of two circular arches drawn concave towards each other .
The irregular surface of mica will in like manner produce multiplications of appearances , that may be seen much better than they can be described .
When the same surfaces are applied to the red bow , phenomena that are perfectly of the same form will be made visible within and just under the bow ; and the streaks will also be in a parallel direction .
The side of the prism , to which a plain glass must be applied , is of singular use in the explanation of many appearances of the coloured phenomena , which are to be seen , and it is on this account that the formation of the generated colours into all sorts of configurations has been noticed before I come to that part of this paper , wherein this subject must find a further discussion ; for by the application of a slip of plain glass , we can decisively ascertain the nature of any coloured appearance in the prism .
Thus , when we see a common coloured red or blue arch , occasioned by the mere different refrangibility of light , the plain glass any how applied to the prism will give no streaks .
If we apply the plain glass to a transmitting side , we can have no streaks from a critical blue bow , because it is occasioned by reflection ; and for the same reason , when the plain glass is applied to a reflecting side , we can have no streaks that belong to a critical red bow , because it originates at the intromitting surface .
With the assistance of 475 this criterion I may now proceed to a review of more complicated phenomena .
45 .
Explanation of various Appearances relating to prismatzc Bows .
If , in the open air , we look into the zenith with a right angled prism held across the eyes , we shall see two red bows convex towards each other .
They are caused by the bright transmissions of the light of the heavens through the sides in which the bows appear ; for when to either of these sides the criterion of the plain glass is applied , we shall have coloured streaks .
The course of the rays which produce the two bows is delineated in Fig. 3 , Plate XII .
ABC represents the prism , and the rays that can enter the eye when they fall on AB within the limits abA from o ?
o ' O to 5 5 ' , , which are the red , orange , yellow , and the brightest part of the green , will form the red bow ; and the situation of the eye at E will be had by the mean refrangibility of the rays which give the bow ; for as the angle Bc d must be 49 ? ?
38 ' 19",5 , we have the obliquity B dc = 85 ?
Sl ' 40",5 and the angle CeE that conveys the ray to the eye will be 82 ? ?
49 ' 3 ' , 2 .
The same thing will happen on the other side of the prism , where the rays mn op q will come to the eye at E , in an equal but differently directed angle Bq E , and cause an inverted red bow to be seen in the side AC .
When we look down into the side of an equilateral prism we see a blue bow , but on lifting the eye and prism gently up together towards the zenith , the bow , at a certain altitude , will be changed from blue to red ; and by the application of the criterion , it is proved that we see the first by reflection , and the last by transmission .
For , suppose ab , Fig. 4 .
Plate XII .
to be a ray of a mean refrangibility between the violet , indigo , blue , and half the green ; when this falls on the side AC of the equilateral prism AB C with an obliquity abA of 57 ? ?
58 ' 8"5 , it will be refracted so as to make the angle Cc d 70 ? ?
2 ' 56",8 which gives 49 ? ?
57 3 " , for the a ngle C dc ; and consequently the ray de fE will coime to the eye by the same angles of reflection and refraction as it entered the prism , and make AfE equal to Ab a. The eye at E will therefore see a blue bow .
Then if a plain glass be applied to the transmitting side AC there can be no streaks ; for blue bows being caused by the critical separation of the rays occasioned by the Newtonian reflexibility , the plain glass must be in contact with the reflecting side ; and as soon as we hold it against B C , the coloured streaks will make their appearance .
The change of the colour of the bow , on lifting the prism and eye together towards the zenith , is represented in figure 5 ; for the light from the sky , which will enter the prismz on the side A B , will eclipse the blue bow which was seen before by light entering from the ground through the side AC in figure 4 ; then if ab fig. 5 is a ray of the mean refrangibility of the red bow , it will by refraction give the angle Bcd 49 ? ?
38 ' 19",5 , from which we obtain Bdb equal to 70 ? ?
21 ' 40",5 , and the ray will , by a second refraction , come to the eye in an angle CeE of 58 ? ?
44 ' 12",4 , where the red bow will be seen ; but in order to produce coloured streaks , the plain glass must now be applied to the transmitting side A B. When a right angled prism is held in the hand , so that the light of the sky through an open window may fall upon the base , if then an observer with his back to the light looks through the base intohe the he ofeprism AB fig. 6 , he will see an erect blue bow by two reflections , only one of which however is the cause of the critical separation of the coloured rays , the other being a common one .
For when a mean refrangible blue-bow-ray falls with an obliquity abC of 82 ?
i 7 ' 3t/ " oB C , it will by refraction give the angle Bc d= 85 t ' 56"8 , from which we obtain Ade 49 ?
' 7",3 , which being the mean angle of the critically separated rays , they will by reflection pass to the side A C , where the angle of the common refection C of will be 40 2 ' 56"8 ; this gives 85 2 56B88 , and by refraction the middle of the blue bow will be seen by an eye at E in an angle Eg B equal to the angle ab C. From the construction of the figure , it is evident that the eye may be drawn from E towards a , and always keep the blue bow in view , which will still remain erect ; for hen the eye comes to a , the rays by which the bow is seen will then enter at E , and the critical reflection will still remain at d , as may be satisfactorily proved by an application of the plain glass to AC , which will cause no streaks , whereas they will immediately appear when it is held under the side A B. When the eye looks into the side BC with the same obliquity of 82 ? ?
17 ' si " , but differently directed , so that in fig. 7 the angle may be ab B , instead of abCa blue bow will again be seen , but in an inverted position .
This also may be drawn over into the other side of the prism without an alteration of its appearance , the reason of which is suffciently evident from the construction of the figure ; but in this case the critical re flecton will be a e , and the common one at d. It will be proper o show that like appearances of the red bow may be seen ; for this purpose let the prism be laid with one side upon a sheet of white paper placed in a window , with the base towards the observer , as represented in fig. 8 .
In this position , the light from without reflected by the paper under the prism will be brighter than that from within the room , and the very oblique incident rays ab will be refracted by the horizontal id A B , so as to make the angle B cd equal to 49 ? ?
38 ' 19",5 , f om which we have B de 85 ? ?
2I ' 40"t , nd by refraction CeE 82 ? ?
4 , $4 , the eye plac &lt; d at E will therefore see an erect red bow in the horzontal id A B , which may be drawn over into the perpendicular side without change of positon ; for the scattered rays refected from the paper will also enter the prism in the same oblique angle of incidence from the opposite direction ab fig. 9 ; where having caused the red bow by an intromissive critical separation at c , they will come to the eye after a common refletion from the side A C , in the same angle as before .
When an inverted red bow is to be seen the eye must be placed a little lower , and the calculation of the angles in the loth and ith figures , which represent the course of the rays , being similar though differently directed , will be sufficiently understood by an inspection of them ; but as in fig. 8 and 9 , the intromissive separation was produced by the honzontal side , so it is , in these fgures , eiected by the vertical one ; all which may be proved by a proper application of the criterion .
There are many other phenonena attending the bows , but as they are more intricate , and not necessary for my present purpose , I leave them to the ingenuity of those ho have entered into the preceding calculations , which are quite sufficient them be 00 2 The ist Surface of a Pism is not concerned in the Formati of the blue Bow , nor of the Streaks that are produced by a plah1 Glass applied to the eicient Surface .
It has already been mentioned that the bows are formed byr scattered light ; but to have a direct experimental proof that such light , if not absolutely necessary to the formation of the : bows , is at least equally efficient with regularly refracted light , I took a prism with one side of it roughened on emery , and ' receiving the light through it when the eye was in the situation required for seeing the blue bow , I saw it as completely iormed by scattered light , as it could have been by light regu-larly refracted through a polished side .
A natural consequence of this experiment seems tol be , that the form of the surface through which light enters can be of no consequence ; this will however admit of a more convincing proof , as follows : upon the middle of the side of a right angled prism , through which the rays entered that caused the blue bow , I laid a plano convex lens of an inch and a half focus ; the result was , that not the least alteration could be perceived either in the form or in the colour of the bow , both which remained as perfect under the place where the incident rays passed through the lens as they were on each side of it .
When I changed the convex lens for a plano-concave glass of the same focus , appearances were still the same ; and when by a critical application of a plain glass I produced coloured streaks from the base of the prism , the interposition of either the convex or concave glass was equally immaterial .
A scattering glass applied to the incident ray , had no other effect than to diminish the brightness of the bow .
The same experiment may be repeated with the red bow ; but as here the first surface is essential to the formation of the bow , the plain side of the convex lens or concave glass , when placed against the prism , as before , will produce streaks ; neither the bow , nor its streaks however will be in the least affected by the convexity or concavity of the outward surface of the glass applied , through which the light is admitted .
A scattering glass will have no effect to disturb the bow or its streaks , and when this glass is emeried on both sides , we have again the bow complete , but without streaks ; and by this fact it is proved , that unless a polished plain reflecting surface is applied to the prism , streaks cannot be formed .
47 .
The Streaks which may be seen in the blue Bow contain the Colours of both the Parts of the prismatic Spectrum , by the cri .
tical separation of which the Bow is formed .
The most favourable way of observing the colours of the blun bow streaks that are formed when a plain glass is laid under the base of a right angled prism , is to place a screen of white paper , before an open window , and to let the direct solar light shine through it upon the side of the prism .
This scattered light will be bright and uniform , and cause no adventitious colours to mix with the streaks .
The eye should be within six or seven inches of the prism .
A streak consists of ' a certain principal colour and the intermediate tint which separates it from the next ; and in the following menmorandum of foburteen streaks , which I saw in the manner above described , the principal colours are placed in front , and the dividing tints .
at the side between them.o e81 Very faint blue 2 .
Faint blue , 3 .
Blue , 4 .
Bright blue , 5 .
Purple blue , 6 .
Bluish red , 7 .
Deep red , 8 .
Red , 9 .
Red , o. Red , i. Pale red , 12 .
Paler red , 13 .
Dingy yellow , 14 .
Dinlgy yellow .
Pale red .
Pale red .
Pale red .
Faint red .
Whitish red .
aWhitish red .
Greenish white .
G-reenish white .
BPale bluish green .
Pale bluish green .
---Pale bluish green .
Dirty white .
Dirty white .
1o ascertain whether the second surface of the subjac at glass , which by other experiments I know to have a multiply1 1 ing power of at least six or seven reiterated interior reflections , all of which may be seen through the side of the prism , had any share in the production of these streaks , I fixed on one side of it a glass , of which the lowest surface was emeried , and on the other a metalline plain mirror , but found that the streaks were both in number and colour perfectly alike in them all .
By this account it is evident that the streaks derived from the blue bow contain not only the colours of the blue reflected , but also those of the red transmitted part of the spectrum .
This fact is a clear indication of the office which is performed by the surface of the subjacent plain glass , which is , simply that of reflecting back the rays of the transmitted red part of the spectrum , which being mixed with the blue part , both togethr , by their intersections , produce the observed streaks , as will b explained hereafter .
That the colours of the transmitted part of the spectrum are reflected back iinto the prism , is a point which I suppose will be admit ; but if it shouid be imagined that the red rays in the streak"s of the blue bow wlight come into the prism by a scattered reflectio ; n of the light vich falls on the plain glass under its base , thenu I say tht a sheet of white paper or double emeried glass , ought to give the brightest streaks ; whereas , on the contrary , neither of then produces any ; ' it is therefore evident , that a regular reflecting surface is necessary to their formation ; but sucl a surface , be it glass or metal , can only reflect red rays when it receives them ; and since we know that the red part of the spectrum is transmitted , and must fall on the reflecting surface , it is but fair to conclude that the : See the last paragraph of the .
preceding article , rays , of which that part is composed , are those which by reflection re-enter the prism48 .
On the Formation of Streaks .
As I have now ascertained that the streaks we see when a plain glass is laid under a prism , which shows the blue bow , are formed by the principle of reflection , which throws back the transmitted rays , it will be a considrable satisfaction if we can trace the course of these rays far enough to have some idea of the arrangement , whereby such appearances may be produced .
To show , by calculation , the complete formation of the st'Ieaks in a case that is liable to such variation , on account of the different contact between the modifying surfaces , the position of the light and the inclination of the eye , would be a most laborious , if not endless , undertaking ; it will therefore be sufficient , if I can make it appear , that streaks must unavoidably be produced by the rays which after transmission are reflected back again , and mix with those that form the bow ; and this I believe will not be difficult .
For instance , let F G , fig. 12 , Plate XIII .
be the base of a solid piece of glass , in which a compound ray of light is moving from A to a , with an obliquity AaG =4 49 6 ' 12 , '5 ; and let IK be the plain surface of a reflecting substance placed under the base ; then will the violet , indigo , blue , and the faintest part of the green of this ray be reflected at c , and the remaining green , the yellow , orange , and red will be transmitted .
Now , in order to understand the intention of this figure , it will be necessary to observe that on account of the minuteness of the operations of light , all the lines and distances are represented upon a scale one thousand times larger than what the calculation gives t:hem .
The real dimensions of several lines therefore cannot find room in the figure , and must be supplied by imagination .
The distance of the eye from the base F G , for instance , which in the calculation has been assumed to be only three inches , will be 300ooo ; the diameter of the pupil of the eye 200oo ; the breadth of the base not less than 2160 ; and the subtense of the whole blue bow will be twenty-four inches eight tenths .
The distance between the reflecting surface I K , and base F G , I have supposed to be the ten thousandth part of an inch ; it is therefore in this figure represented by one tenth of an inch , and the space a / , in which the colours that have been mentioned are transmitted , and which by calculation is , oo3588 is expressed by 3,59 inches .
The rays of the different colours which are transmitted at a will be refracted in different angles , and when they come to the reflecting plane will be returned to the base in such a direction , as to come to it again in the same angle in which by refraction they left it ; but their distance from the point a , when they reach the base , will differ considerably .
If we call the angle of refraction qp , and the distance of the reflecting rad .
plane from the base x , then 2x x tan will be an expression for the intervals at which the several rays will re-enter the base , which for red will be are =,0019198 , for orange o = , oo22974 , for yellow ay =,9o26675 , and for green acg , oo0043. .
At these places the rays will be a second time refracted , and rise towards the eye in parallel directions , and with an obliquity of 49 46 ' 12",5 equal to that of their incidence A G. Their course is represented in the figure by the letters a rr ' r " , o o ' o " , ay y'y " , and agg'g " .
These things being premised , I proceed to explain the consequences that must arise from the mixture of the transmitted with the originally reflected rays .
The first is , that the rays which after transmission re-enter the prism at different points , and are the cause of the streaks , will not proceed in a parallel direction with those that by reflection from the same or neighbouring points form the blue bow .
For instance , let A od , and B3 A ' , fig. 13 , be two incident and reflected rays of the blue bow ; then if the yellow ray transmitted at a after two refractions , and one reflection , not expressed in this figure , re-enters the prism at y , it will make the angle y'y F equal to the angle Aa G. But from the construction of the blue bow , it has been shown that B/ G is greater than Aa G ; , ' AF is therefore greater than y'y F , and the rays a d ' and y y ' will meet somewhere in the line A / ' produced .
If we call the greatest of the two angles m , the smallest n , and the distance sin. n of the angular points d , then dx i. will give us the sii .
mn length of the line a A ' , at which the two rays will meet and intersect each other , which according to the enlarged size of this figure , will be at 773 inches from / .
For the same reason the orange ray o o ' will meet/ 3 ' at 1084 inches , and the red ray r r ' at 1401 inches from A. It follows also from the same construction , that some of the transmitted rays will diverge from the reflected ones ; for instance , the green ray transmitted at a , which re-enters the prism at g , will make the angle g'g F less than the angle / ' A F ; the rays 3 A ' and g ' g will therefore diverge .
To this may be added , that gg ' y y ' o o ?
r r ' and ca ' will be parallel .
If such difference between the directions of the transmitted and reflected rays takes place , it will be seen that the rays transmitted through different points are among themselves subject to the same variety in the direction of their course ; r'r " , o ' o " , ytyf/ , g'g " , for instance , which passed through the point a , are parallel to each other ; but all of them converge respectively to r r ' , o o ' , yy ' , g ' transmitted through c ; and on the other hand y'y " , o ' o " , r ' r " , diverge from gg ' .
Fig. 14 , Plate XIV .
is a general representation of the course of the rays of the blue bow , and of those that produce the streaks .
The base of the bow is divided into twenty equal parts , and one ray of the bow reflected from each of the points of the division is marked by a line .
Twenty-one sets of rays of the different colours transmitted through the same points re-enter the base at their calculated places , and are represented by dotted lines drawn at proper angles ; but here it should be noticed , that the difference of the twenty angles being much too small to give any idea of their converging or diverging condition , the difference between each set has been expressed by one degree less towards the right , and one degree more towards the left ; the angle of the middle ray being of its proper magnitude .
The strong lines marked A as , B , C , D 3 , E s , show the division of the colours , and are the same which in fig. i were used to explain the construction of the blue bow .
The rays incident on the base FG , in the direction of these lines , which are reflected in the same angles , and are also marked with strong lines , meet at the point where the eye is supposed to be placed .
The figure has been drawn by the result of a strict calculation contained in the following table .
In the first column are the angles of the obliquity of the incident rays ; in the second Pps 287 we have the distances of the reflecting points on the base from oa .
The remaining columns contain the distances also reckoned from a , at which the transmitted rays of the several colours re-enter the base , after two refractions and one ; reflection .
Table of Calculations .
No. Obliquity .
Distances .
Red .
Orange .
Yellow .
Blue Indigo .
Violet .
f\ &lt; 'aI 49 46 12,50,0000000,0019198 , oo0022974+,0o26675,0043053 2 49 47 17,58,0012397 '0030962 , oo3431',0037464 ' 0049503 3i 49 48 22,65,0024794,0042782,00oo4578 , oo4849I,0057881 49 49 20o , oo00,0035880 o4r 49 49 27 73,0037191 i,0054665,57356,0059726,0067327 , 5 49 50 32,80,0o49588,0066566,006902o,007II17,0077443,0118750 6 49 51 37,88 , oo061985 0078517,0o80759 0082630 , oo8800oo,0112212 / 49 52 42,95 .
0074382,0090501,0092559,0094243 , oo009887 I,0115764 8 49 53 48 ?
3 , oo0086779 ' 012514 o01044'13 '0105938 , O11C005,0122780 9 49 54 5310 o0063i9901 770 145,0121302,0131457 ' 49 55 34,00,010721 ... 10 49 55 58,18,0111573 , o126614,012829,0129523 741 , o3274 088 I " i 49 57 3,2',012397,0138695,014022 i,0141395 , '144294 oI51325 0i8614z 2 : 49 58 8,33,0136367,01 ?
0797,0152224,0153309,0155939,0161973,0183085 13 49 59 13,40,0148764,0162915,0164254,0165261,0167661,0172916 , OI885 ?
" ' ; r{4 S9 -----.015 4 ? ?
49 59 41,00,0154406 14 050o I8,48 I , oi616i,0175048 , o176307 , o177246,0179447 0 , o18o81 , o0196o09 : 15 50 I 23,55 : 7358 508879 i08382,8959 50i288 01,095405 09 o1231720 6 50 2 28,63,0185955,0190354,0200476,0201299,0203177,02-c6884 , c:2T4808.02,1409 17 50 3 33,70 198352 , oz0211525 oz,0212588,0213361,02151o6 , z18460,0225i68,0236904 i8 5 ? ?
4 38,78,0210749 502237 ?
7 I0224715 5,0225444,0227070,0230125,02359o6 , oZz.812 19 5 ? ?
5 43,85,22346,235899,0236857 0237545 239066,024864,0246915 2399 20 5 ?
^ 4893 '0o 235584,0248100 2493 0 ' 2z49663.02 ?
519 ?
?z53664 '0258'30 '263933 j21 E50 7 5400 5,024794 z6,0261797,0263138 , o655i8 , o561 6950 , 027438 0 C-n 1-1 i. ; Z ti C,3 " tt ; :.2 &lt; Z~ From the complex nature of this figure , it will immediately be seen that we cannot attempt an investigation of the particular streaks , that will be formed by the mixture of the transmitted with the reflected rays .
An inspection of it , however , will be sufficient to show that streaky appearances must be produced .
For instance , between M and the first red ray which re-enters the base , a narrow blue streak should be seen ; this will be broken in upon by the mixture of two sets of red , orange , and yellow rays , which together with the reflected colours of the bow , the green being still wanting , must give a pale red division immediately joining the blue streak .
When we advance farther into the figure , the great mixture of the colours and the different directions of the rays are so various , that nothing particular can be determined without entering into a very complicated calculation of the meeting and intersections of the rays ; we see , however , that these mixtures will produce a condensation of rays in some parts , and vacancies in others , so that no uniform tinge can remain , and consequently streaky appearances must be seen .
The same conclusion may be drawn from an inspection of the places where the transmitted colours re-enter the base ; for the green , which is transmitted between ' and i3 does not enter again till after the fourth division of the base ; the blue which begins to be transmitted at 3 cannot find admittance again till after the tenth ; the indigo transmitted from y to S does not re-enter into the composition till after the sixteenth division ; and the violet transmitted between &amp; and E will only come in again after the nineteenth .
There will consequently be a considerable space without green , another without blue , a third without indigo , and a fourth without violet ; from which it follows , that streaky appearances must every where be seen in the composition of the rays that come to the eye .
We should also notice that towards S all colours hut violet will be transmitted , for which reason when they rise again a compound of them will produce streaks that approach to white , such as pale red , pale bluish green , dingy yellow , and dirty white ; so that both at the b2ginning and end of the bowstreaks all observations X of them agree perfectly with what is pointed out by the foregoing remarks ; and though we have not analysed the particular construction of the streaks in the middle of the bow , yet what has been said will sufficiently prove that various successive changes of the colours must also take place .
It will be understood that I have only attempted to give some idea of the action of surfaces , in giving configuration to colours that are already produced ; but that the principle of reflection is the cause of streaks will remain evident , even if the method of its action should not have been explained so much to our satisfaction as we might wish .
It will also remain to be proved , that streaks are only the effect of one of those modications which depend on the figure of the reflecting surface ; t and having got thus far in this research , I may advance towards a final consideration of my subject .
49 .
Prismatic Bows when seen at a Distance are straight Lines .
The next point to be shown , in order to approach gradually to a solution of my problem , is that the apparently arched figure of the blue and red bows , which may be seen in a prism , " See the first paragraph of the last article .
See the second paragraph of the 44th article .
201 is merely the consequence of the position of the eye , and the modifying power of the surface through which it sees them .
For a proof of this , it would be sufficient to refer to the principles of the formation of the bows , from which it must be evident that the critical separation of the rays will be exerted in every direction , and that the extent of the bows we see would consequently be parallel to the sides and base of the prism , if the eye could receive the rays which form them , every where in the same angle from a line drawn parallel to that side of the prism through which they pass .
An experimental confirmation of this we have by laying down a prism , and keeping either of the bows in view while we gradually draw the eye away ; it will then be seen that the curvature , which the bows had assumed , will continually be diminished , and nearly vanish at a very moderate distance .
5o .
The Colours of the Bow-streaks owe their Production to the Principle of the critical Separation of the different Parts of the prismatic Spectrum .
That streaks will be produced when a plain glass is laid under the side of a prism which forms either of the coloured bows , has already been sufficiently shown ; but that these streaks , as well as the rest of the phenomena which have been mentioned in the 44th article , are exclusively to be deduced from the same principle by which the bows have been explained will require some proof .
With regard to streaks , the following experiment , I believe , will remove every doubt upon the subject .
Let a plain glass be laid under the base of a right angled prism ; then , if the eye at first be placed very low , no streaks B-93 wll be seen ; but when afterwards the eye is gradtIiuy eleated , tifl by the appearance of the blue bow we find that the principle of the critical separation of colours is exere , the streaks will become visible , and not before ; nor will th y remain in view when the eye islifted higher than the situation in which the effects of the critical separation are visible .
It is therefore evident , not only that the colours are furnished by the same cause which produces the bow , but also that they are modified into streaks by the plain surface under the In additon to this , it must be remarked that the criterion , which has been successfully used in the explanation of several prismatic phenomena , proves that no other colours , but those which arise from the same source , can be modified so as to give streaks .
The following experiment will show the foun- .
dation on which this criterion is establshed .
Let there be an horizontal opening in the upper part of a window-shutter , of about three feet long and one foot high ; then , if we look at it through one side of a right angled prism , we shall see a red bow from the highest margin of the opening , and a blue one from the lowest ; but when a plain glass is applied to either of the sides of the prism through which we see these bows , neither of them will give any coloured streaks .
The experimenter must carefully keep the critical bows out of the way ; for should either of them fall upon those which are under examination , streaks must of course be seen to pass over them .
When a spherical surface is placed under the prism , it has likewise been shown that coloured rings will be seen ; but these , like the streaks , will not be visible when the eye is below the place where the bows can be seen , which would not have happened had a plain glass been used instead of the prism ; for with such an arrangement , coloured rings may be seen at the most oblique as well as perpendicular stations of the eye.-As soon as the blue bow is perceived , the rings begin to be formed , first partly , then half , and lastly , we see them completed ; and what is remarkable , these coloured rings are of such a magnitude and brightness , that they cannot be a moment mistaken for those we see when a plain glass is laid upon the same spherical curve.-The eye being then gradually elevated above the range in which the bows may be seen , these rings will pretty suddenly shrink in their dimensions , and lose much of their brilliancy ; till at last , when the eye comes to a perpendicular situation , we find them dwindled away to the size and appearance of such as may be seen when a plain glass is substituted for the prism .
Irregular surfaces are no less decisive in the phenomena they exhibit ; for when an equilateral prism is laid upon red mica in a strong illumination of scattered light , we may see a most admirable variety of very minute coloured appearances , whenever the eye is brought to the blue bow place ; but as soon as it is in the least elevated above , or depressed below that situation , these fantastical figures are sure to vanish .
5.1 A Lens may be looked upon as a Prism bent round in a circular Form .
Those who have followed me in the anlalysis of the blue and red bows , will readily enter into the application I shall make of this theory to the generation of coloured rings by lenses .
It has been proved , that the different refiangibility of the prismatic colours , at certlain critical angles , will cause the violet ; indigo , blue , and part of the green rays to be sepa rately reected , and that , according to what has been said in ths 49th article , this will produce an extended straight-lined appearance tinged with the abovementioned colours .
It has also been shown that the same principle , at certain critical angles , will cause the red , orange , yellow , and part of the green rays to be exclusively intromitted , in suchdirections as will produce a similarly extended straight-lined appear ance tinged with these latter colours .
From the angle in which the eye must receive these appearances in a prism , they are converted into the blue and red bows ; but , since they would appear to be straight lines , if they were seen in directions perpendicular to a line drawn parallel to the edges of the prism , it follows , that were a long prism bent round into a circular form so that its two ends might meet , these lines would then be changed into rings , one of which would be formed by reflection , the other by transmission .
A lens may be said to be such a prism , from which indeed it differs only in one respect ; which is , that an angle contained between two lines applied as tangents to different parts of its surface is changeable , whereas the refracting angle of a given prisn is constant .
If it should be remarked that in consequence of considering a lens in this light , a plano-convex one , for instance , ought to present us , in certain situations , with a rilg of the colours of the blue bow , and in others with a similar ring containing those of the red one , I must observe that the reaso why such rings or bows can never be seen by the eye , though the phyQq2 295 sical separation of the rays should actually take place , is owing to that particular circumstance in which , we have remarked , the lens differs from a prism , namely , the curvature of the refracting surface ; for although it has been proved that the figure of the first surface of a prism is not concerned in the formation of the blue bow , yet that of the surface through which it is seen by the eye is of material consequence , as will appear by the following experiment .
An equilateral prism , one side of which I had made cylindrical , was exposed so as to receive the incident light through the convex surface .
In this situation , the eye being about three or four inches from the prism , a bow was formed which in every respect was like one I saw in another equilateral prism , whose three sides were flat ; but when the convexity of the first prism was turned towards the eye , the bow could no longer be seen , although the critical separation of the rays would undoubtedly form it in this , as well as in the other prism ; the two sides and angles of each exposed to the light being perfectly equal .
By much attention to what may be perceived when the eye is placed at various distancs , I found that the curvature of the surface through which P tried to see the bow , produced a focal contraction and stbsequent inversion of the rays in their passage to the eye and thus occasioned a total change of appearances .
Now , since a ring or bow would not be visible in a prism bent round , if the side through which it must be seen were curved , we cannot expect to see such appearances in a lens , which every where presents us with a spherical surface .
The effect upon the appearance of the bows , produced by the surface through which the rays must pass to cone to the eye , may be still better examined by laying the plain side of a plano-convex glass of a short focus upon the flat side of a prism , through which we see either of the bows ; for when the eye is near the focus of the lens , they will be entirely effaced as far as they are covered by the lens .
A consequence of great importance may be drawn from these experiments ; for since the cause of the coloured appearances , which have been called bows when seen in a prism , is now perfectly understood to be the critical separation of the colours of the incident light , it must be admitted that such a separation will certainly take place whenever a beam of light can find an entrance into glass , so as to make the required angles either with an interior or exterior surface , be it in the shape of a prism , lens , or solid of any kind , although the figure of the last transmitting surface should not permit such coloured-appearance-making-rays to reach the eye .
A planoconvex lens will consequently by its construction separate the rays of light which enter at the convex surface in such a manner , as by reflection to produce what , if it could be seen , would be called a blue bow , and by rays that come in at the plain side , separate them by intromission so as to produce a red one .
To remove all doubt about the truth of this theory , I ground a small part of a plano-convex lens flat , that I might look into it , as it were , through a window , to see what passed within .
The flat made an angle with the base of about thirty-four degrees , and I saw through it very plainly , in different directions of the illumrination , a blue bow by light entering at the convex surface , and a red bow by light coming in at the plain one .
With regard to a plain glass contained between parallel 297 surfaces , it may be remembered that when in the last paragraph of the gc9th article I saic that streaks could not be seen bylaying another plain glass under it , I intimated at the same tiimne the formation of colours ; this will now admit of a satisfactory explanation .
Scattered rays will enter into a parallel piece of glass , and by reflection the critical separation of colours will take place on its interior surface , so that if this efict could be seen , a blue bow wtoud appear ; and in the same manner a red bow might be seen by rays intromitted through the lowest surface .
In consequence of the course of these rays , streaks would also a:pear from each of the bows when another plain glass is laid under the parallel piece ; but from a calculation made according to the principles that have been established in the preceding part oftlis paper , the reflection of a mean ray of the blue bow from the interior suirface being at the angle 49 ? ?
57 ' 3 , ; and this bei ; ng also the oblique incidence on the upper surface , a ra y hict c , mes in that direction with the mean refrangiblit o te ray of the blue bow cannot come out of glass .
The anr- , of ob iquity of the mean intromitted ray for the red bow is 40 ?
" 8 ' i9"..5 , and on conputing ; ts direction by the n an refran ity of the red bow it will al1soe found that it cannot clear the glass .
I have seen t ble bows and their streaks when the upper surface of the glass as inclined only nine degrees to the l ) were one ; and possibly a ich smaller angle would have been sufficient to pernit the emergence of the coloured rays .
The strong reflection form the outside of the glass , and the contraction of the dimensions of the bows are however much against perceiving them at a great obliquity .
The critical Separat on of the olours , which takes lace at certain 4ngles of Incidence , is the p'may Cause of the New .
tonian coloured Rings between Object-glasses .
It has been proved that streaks , concentric rings , lenticular igures , and all sorts of irregular coloured phenomena may be seen by means of the prism ; and in the 35th , $36th , and $7th articles , it has already been suffciently explained that the cause of the great variety of these appearances is to be foun in the confgur a , ng power of surfaces .
I have also remarked in the 4oth article , that in order completely to account for the Newtonnian rings , it remained only t be shown how the colours thus modIfied are produced The pisa:c experments contained in this paper have explained in what manner a critical separation of the colours , Iwhich takes place at certain angles of incidenc , is the cause of the appearance of the blue and red bows ; since the diffe reint reflexibilty of the rays of light , by which NEWTON has accounted for the blue bow , brings on a critical separation of the blue colours , and since also the different intromissibility by which I have explained the red bow , occasions an equally critical separation of the red ones , In the 5oth article I have not only proved that all the above described various appearances , which in the first part of this paper were produced by convex glasses , may be equally well obtained by the use of a prism , but have also shown that the great simplicity of this valuable optical instrument has cleared up great diiiiculties , by pointing out to us tat the colours which are modified into such various shapes , are in all prisma tic experiments exclusively produced by the critical separation 999 of the rays of light .
Now , as this 1nms't 1 ) 3I itle ; ; it will certainly not be philosophical to Lok fur a dirent cause of the same or simiilar effects , when convex riases , which have all the required prismatic propertiis are utsd to produce them.* To show the great similarity , or rath.1r the identity of these effects , let us examine them in dif l'r^nt points of view , ad since the variety of the configurations is no longer an object that wants explaining , I shall only take the most simple case of each , namely , the coloured rings , that are produced when a plano-convex lens is laid with its convex side upon a plain reflecting surface ; and the colouiJ:rd streaks which are produced when the base of a right angled prism is in the same manner placed upon such a surface .
The form of rings arises from the spherical figure of the lens.-The right-lined appearanice of the streaks is owing to the strazight figure of the plain surface of the prism .
The colour of the rings may suddenly be changed . ?
The colour of the blue bow-streak may as instantly be converted into those of the red bow .
1| The cause of the sudden change of the rings has been shown to be that the sets of one colour are seen by reflection , and those of other by transmission . ?
It has also been shown that the blue bowz-sreaks are seen by reflection , and those of the red bow by transmission.* In a lens we may at the same time see , in half the set , the colours of the reflected , and in the other half , the colours of the transmitted rings.t And ia prism held before an open window , when the eye is close to it , and when half the bow falls on the side of the room , we may see blue streaks by reflection from half the blue bow , and green streaks by transmission from half the red bow .
When deep convex , or concave glasses , are laid upon the first surface of a lens , the rings are not affected by it . ?
And when the same glasses are laid upon the first surface of a prism the streaks remain unaltered .
J1 When the convexity of the lens , which is placed on the reflecting surface , is changed , the size of the rings is also changed . ?
And when the angle of the prism is increased or diminished , the distance of the streaks undergoes a proportional alteration.* When the lens is pressed upon the plain glass , the rings increase in diameter.tt And by a pressure of the plain glass against the prism the distance of the streaks grows larger .
To form rings by a lens , scattered light is only required.* .
And the same light is best for the production of streaks by a prism . ? ? ? ?
Many other instances of similarity might be adduced , but See the 43d article .
t See the second paragraph in the i8th article .
$ The experiment has been made , though not mentioned in this paper . ?
See the sixth paragraph of the 24th article .
[ 1 See the second paragraph of the 46th article .
t See the first : paragraph of the 7th article .
~ See the fourth paragraph of the 4zd article .
+ See the 8th article .
t See the seventh paragraph of the z4th article . ? ? ? ?
See the third paragraph of the 46th article .
those that have been recited will surely be sufficient to show that the same operations , which will produce these prsmatic phenomena , will equally account for those that are formed by the lens ; now , as it has been clearly proved , that the critical separation of the colours , which takes place at certain angles of incidence , occasions all the phenomena of the blue and red bows , and of the streaks , rings , and other regular or irregular appearances , that may be seen in a prism , there cannot remain a doubt but that the Newtonian rings observed between object glasses , are owing to the same cause .
535 .
Remarks relatingo the No %wtonia alterate Fts of easy Req/ ection and easy fransmi'ssion .
In attempting to rescue the scienceof optics , from what has been so long considered -as unsatisfactoryfor explaining the great question about the cause of the coloured rings , I have made use of a principle , the e cts of which have so near a resemblance to those of the suppositious fits of easy reflection and easy transmission , that the author of them might easily be misled by appearances .
But although the principle of a critical separation of the colours substituted for these fits , admits the reflection of some rays at the same angles of inci dence at which others are transmitted , yet since the Newtonian different refrangibility of light will account for these critical reflections within glass , and the equally critical intromissions from without , we can have no longer any reason tascribe original fits to the rays of light , which in the first part of this paper , they have already been proved not to possess , and which now , in all prismatic experiments , I have shown are not necssary for explaining appearances that may be accounted for without them .
Slough near Windsor , Dec. 9 , 18o8 .
b igyor ib gfi 1 ?
4 fIr1riaiIEirit1iEF v ?
I1 ''------Ll~---I II - ? ? ?
?- ?
---..,1 I --c ... .
, , , ? ?
9---- ? ? ?
?---~'"S - ' 4~'~~ ' ?
~ " ' ` " ' ` ' ' ` 7I. .
~~~~~~~ --------- ... ~--I v I/ 9 yblr r7 JT b9gyy oo 8or 1'8 I.1 I. I..,.I ... ... -.^.- .
I. .
- ?
---- .
--- ? .
, -- ?
?u , , , rr-7 -l--- ?
---I I~ , II m , ?
... a ?
" -I ?
, , r U , Y -r ... I II -- ?
.l--1 )gby ob'r17.o19 -I I-

