V. On Practical Methods for Rapid Signalling by the Electric Telegraph .
" ( Second communication .
) By Prof. W. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received December 11 , 1856 .
I. Further remarks on proposed method for great distances .
Since my former communication on this subject I have worked out the determination of operations performed at one extremity of a submarine wire , so adjusted , that when the other extremity is kept constantly uninsulated , the subsidence of the electricity in the wire shall follow the triple harmonic law ( that is to say , the electrical potential shall ultimately vary along the wire in proportion to the sine of the distance from either end , one-third of the length of the wire being taken as 180 ?
) .
The condensation of the electrical pulse at the receiving extremity , due to such operations , is of course considerably greater than that which is obtained from operations leading only to the double harmonic as described in my last communication ; but experience will be necessary to test whether or not the precision of adjustment in the operations required to obtain the advantages which the theory indicates , can be attained in practice when so high a degree of condensation is aimed at .
The theory shows exactly what amount and duration of residual charge in the wire would result from stated deviations from perfect accuracy in the adjustments of the operations ; but it cannot be known for certain , without actual trial , within what limit such deviations can be kept in practice .
From Weber 's experiments on the electric conductivity of copper , and from measurements which I have made on specimens of the cable now in process of manufacture for the Atlantic telegraph , I think it highly probable that , with an alphabet of twenty letters , one letter could be delivered every two seconds between Newfoundland and Ireland ( which would give , without any condensed code , six words per minute ) on the general plan which I explained in my last communication ; and that no higher battery power than from 150 to 200 small cells of Daniell 's ( perhaps even considerably less ) would be required .
Whether or not this system may ultimately be found preferable to the very simple and undoubtedly practicable method of telegraphing invented by Mr. Wildman Whitehouse , can scarcely be decided until one or both methods shall have been tested on a cable of the dimensions of the Atlantic cable , either actually submerged or placed in perfectly similar inductive circumstances .
II .
Method for telegraphing through submarine or subterranean lines of not more than 500 miles length .
The plan which I have proposed to describe for rapid signalling through shorter wires , has one characteristic in common with the plan I have already suggested for the Atlantic telegraph ; namely , that of using different strengths of current for different signals .
But in lines of less than 500 miles , condensed pulses , such as have been described , may be made to follow one another more rapidly than to admit of being read off by an observer watching the image of a scale in a suspended mirror ; and a new plan of receiving and recording the indications becomes necessary .
Of various plans which I have considered , the following seems most likely to prove convenient in practice .
Several small steel magnets ( perhaps each about half an inch long ) are suspended horizontally by fine threads or wires at different positions in the neighbourhood of a coil of which one end is connected with the line wire and the other with the earth .
Each of these magnets is held in a position deflected from the magnetic meridian by two stops on which its ends press ; and two other small stops of platinum wire are arranged to prevent it from turning through more than a very small angle when actuated by any deflecting force making it leave the first position .
When a current passing through the coil produces this effect on any one of these magnets , it immediately strikes the last-mentioned stops , and so completes a circuit through a local battery and makes a mark on prepared electro-chemical paper .
For each suspended magnet there is a separate style , but of course one battery is sufficient for the whole printing process .
One set of the different suspended magnets are so adjusted , that a current in one direction of any strength falling short of a certain limit makes only one of them move ; that a current in the same direction , of strength exceeding this limit but falling short of another limit , moves another also of the suspended magnets ; and so on for a succession of different limits of strength of current in one direction .
The remaining set of suspended magnets are adjusted to move with different strengths of current in the other direction through the coil .
Without experience it is impossible to say how many gradations of strength could be conveniently arranged to be thus distinguished unmistakeably .
I have no doubt , however , that very moderate applications of electric resources would give at least three different strengths of current in each direction , which could with ease and certainty be distinguished from one another by the test which the suspended magnets afford .
Thus , a signal of six varieties -one letter of an alphabet of six-could be recorded by almost instantaneous movements of six suspended magnets , making one , two or three marks by one set of three styles , or one , two or three marks by another set of three styles , placed all six beside one another , pressing on a slip of electro-chemical paper drawn by clockwork , as in the Morse instrument .
In subterranean or submarine lines of less than 100 miles length , it would be easy , by means of simple battery applications , followed by connexions with the earth , or by means of simple electro-magnetic impulses at one end of the wire , to give ten or twelve of such signals per second without any confusion of utterance at the other end .
The confusion of utterance which would be experienced in working thus through longer lines would be easily done away with , in any length up to 500 miles , by following up each battery application with a reverse application for a shorter time , or by following up each electromagnetic impulse by a weaker reverse impulse , so as approximately to fulfil the condition ( described in my former communication ) , of reducing the subsidence of the electrification in the wire to the double harmonic form .
It would , I believe , be readily practicable to send distinctly five or six such signals per second ( each a distinct letter of an alphabet of six ) through a wire of 500 miles length in a submarine cable of ordinary dimensions .
To perform the electrical operations required for sending a message on this system , mechanism might be had recourse to , and , by the use of perforated slips , as in Bain 's and other systems , it would be easy to work from twelve to twenty of the six-fold varied signals per second through lines of less than 100 miles length .
Operating by the hand is , however , I believe , generally preferred for ordinary telegraphing ; and no such speed as the last-mentioned could be attained even by a skilful operator working with both hands .
Six distinct letters or signs of an alphabet of thirty , could , however , I believe , be delivered per second by the two hands working on a key-board with twelve keys ( perhaps like those of a pianoforte ) , provided the keys are so arranged as to fulfil the following conditions:(1 ) That by simply striking once any one of a first set of six of the keys , an electric operation of one or other of the six varieties shall be made twice , the second time commencing at a definite interval ( perhaps l th of a second ) later than the first .
( 2 ) That by striking one or other of the remaining six keys at the same time , or very nearly at the same time , as one of the first set , the second operation of the double electric signal will be that corresponding to the key of the second set which is struck , instead of being a mere repetition of the operation corresponding to the key of the first set .
It would certainly be easy to make a key-board to fulfil these conditions with the aid of some clockwork power .
Then by arranging the thirty-six permutations and doubles of the six simple signals to represent an alphabet of thirty-six letters and signs , an experienced operator would have to direct his mind to only six different letters per second , while executing them by six double operations with his fingers .
That it would be possible to work by hand at this rate there can be no doubt , when we consider the marvels of rapid execution so commonly attained by practice on the pianoforte ; and it appears not improbable that in regular telegraphic work , practised operators of ordinary skill could perform from four to six letters with ease per second , or from forty to sixty words per minute , on lines of not more than 1,00 miles length .
The six signals per second , which , according to the preceding estimate , could be distinctly conveyed by a submerged wire of 500 miles in length , could of course be easily performed by the hand , with the aid of a key-board and clockwork power adapted to make the double operations for giving rapid subsidence of electricity in the wire when any one key is touched , and to let the different strengths of current , in one direction or the other , be produced by the different keys .
Thus without a condensed code , thirty words per minute could be telegraphed through subterranean or submarine lines of 500 miles ; and from thirty to fifty or sixty words per minute through such lines , of lengths of from 500 miles to 100 miles .
The rate of from fifty to sixty words per minute could be attained through almost any length of air line , were it not for the defects of insulation to which such lines are exposed .
If the imperfection of the insulation remained constant , or only varied slowly from day to day with the humidity of the atmosphere , the method I have indicated might probably , with suitable adjustments , be made successful ; and I think it possible that it may be found to answer for air lines of hundreds of miles ' length .
But in a short air line , the strengths of the currents received , at one extremity , from graduated operations performed at the other , might suddenly , in the middle of a message , become so much changed as to throw all the indications into confusion , in consequence of a shower of rain , or a trickling of water along a spider 's web .

