XVI .
" On a Self-acting Apparatus for multiplying and maintaining Electric Charges , with applications to illustrate the Voltaic Theory .
" By Sir W. THoMsoN , F.R.S. , Glasgow University .
Received June 19 , 1867 .
In explaining the water-dropping collector for atmospheric electricity , in a lecture in the Rloyal Institution in 1860 , I pointed out how , by disinsulating the water-jar and collecting the drops in an insulated vessel , a self-acting electric condenser is obtained .
If , owing to electrified bodies in the neighbourhood , the potential in the air round the place where the stream breaks into drops is positive , the drops fall away negatively electrified ; or vice versed , if the air potential is negative , the drops fall away positively electrified .
The stream of water descending does not in any way detract from the charges of the electrified bodies to which its electric action is due , provided always these bodies are kept properly insulated ; but by the dynamical energy of fluidmotion , and work performed by gravity upon the descending drops , electricity may be unceasingly produced on the same principle as by the electrophorus .
But , as in the electrophorus , there was no provision except good insulation for maintaining the charge of the electrified body or bodies from which the induction originates .
This want is supplied by the following reciprocal arrangement , in which the body charged by the drops of water is made the inductor for another stream , the drops from which in their turn keep up the charge of the inductor of the first .
To stems connected with the inside coatings of two Leyden phials are connected metal pieces , which , to avoid circumlocution , I shall call inductors and receivers .
Each stem bears an inductor and a receiver 67 the inductor of the first jar being vertically over the receiver of the second jar , and vice versa .
Each inductor consists of a vertical metal cylinder ( fig. 1 ) , open at each end .
Each receiver coni. .
sists of a vertical metal cylinder open at each end , but partially stopped in its middle by a small funnel ( fig. 1 ) , with its narrow mouth pointing downwards , and situated a little below the middle of the cylinder .
Two fine vertical streams of uninsulated water are arranged to break into drops , one as near as may be to the centre of each inductor .
The drops fall along the remainder of the axis of the inductor , and thence downwards , along the upper part of the axis of the receiver of the other jar , until they meet the funnel .
The water re-forms into drops at the fine mouth of the funnel , which fall along the lower part of the axis of the receiver and are carried off by a proper drain below the apparatus .
Suppose now a small positive charge of electricity be given to the first jar .
Its inductor electrifies negatively each drop of water breaking away in its centre from the continuous uninsulated water above ; all these drops give up their electricity to the second jar , when they meet the funnel in its receiver .
The drops falling away from the lower fine mouth of the funnel carry away excessively little electricity , however highly the jar may be charged ; because the place where they breakl away is , as it were , in the interior of a conductor , and therefore has nearly zero electrification .
The negative electrification thus produced in the second jar acts , through its inductor , on the receiver of the first jar , to augment the positive electrification of the first jar , and causes the negative electrification of the second jar to go on more rapidly , and so on .
The dynamical value of the electrifications thus produced is drawn from the energy of the descending water , and is very approximately equal to the integral work done by gravity , against electric force on the drops in their path from the point where they break away from the uninsulated water above , to contact with the funnel of the receiver below .
In the first part of this course each drop will be assisted downwards by electric repulsion from the inductively electrified water and tube above it ; but below a certain point of its course the resultant electric force upon it will be upwards , and , according to the ordinary way of viewing the composition of electric forces , may be regarded as being at first chiefly upward repulsion of the receiver diminished by downward repulsion from the water and tube , and latterly , the sum of upward repulsion of the receiver and upward attraction of the inductor .
The potential method gives the integral amount , being the excess of work done agqainst electric force , above work performed by electric force on each drop in its whole path .
It is of course equal to m V , if in denote the quantity of elec[June 20 , 68 tricity carried by each drop , as it breaks from the continuous water above , and V the potential of the inner coating of the lower jar , the potential of the uninsulated water being taken as zero .
The practical Fig. 2 .
limit to the charges acquired is either when one or other of them is so strong as to cause sparks to pass across some of the separating air-spaces , or to throw the drops of water out of their proper course and cause them to fall outside the receiver through which they ought to pass .
It is curious , after commencing with no electricity except a feeble charge in one of the jars , only discoverable by a delicate electrometer , to see in the course of a few minutes a somewhat rapid succession of sparks pass in some part of the apparatus , or to see the drops of water scattered about over the lips of one or both the receivers .
The Leyden jars represented in the sketch ( fig. 2 ) are open-mouthed jars of ordinary flint glass , which , when very dry , I generally find to insulate electricity with wonderful perfection .
The inside coatings consist of strong liquid sulphuric acid , and heavy lead tripods with vertical stems projecting upwards above the level of the acid , which , by arms projecting horizontally above the lip of the jar , bear the inductors and receivers as shown in fig. 2 .
Lids of gutta percha or sheet metal close the mouth of each jar , except a small air-space of from I to of an inch round the projecting stems .
If a tube ( fig. 3 ) be added to the lid to prevent currents of air from circulating into the interior of the jar , the insulation may be so good that the loss may be no more than one per cent. of the whole charge in three or four days .
Two such jars may be 69 kept permanently charged from year to year by very slow water-dropping arrangements , a drop from each nozzle once every two or three minutes being quite sufficient .
Fig. 3 .
The mathematical theory of the action appended below is particularly simple , but nevertheless curiously interesting .
The reciprocal electrostatic arrangement now described , presents an interesting analogy to the self-sustaining electromagnetic system recently brought before the Royal Society by Mr. C. W. Siemens and Professor Wheatstone , and mathematically investigated by Professor Clerk Maxwell .
Indeed it was from the fundamental principle of this electromagnetic system that the reciprocal part of the electrostatic arrangemerit occurred to me recently .
The particular form of self-acting electrophorus condenser now described , I first constructed many years ago .
* Let c , c ' be the capacities of the two jars , 1 , I ' their rates of loss per unit potential of charge , per unit of time , and D , D ' the values of the water-droppers influenced by them .
Let+v and -v ' be their potentials at time t ; v and v ' being both of one sign , in the ordinary use of the apparatus described in the text .
The action is expressed by the following equations , c= D ='v'-lv ; C , =D v--'v ' .
dt dt If c , D , 1 c , c ' , ' , ' were all constant , the solution of these equations would be , for the case of commencing with the first jar charged to potential 1 , and the second zero , v ( c'p+l')et-(c +)e , t t rt ?
( --0 ' 'V---p-'---'-'- ; _ with the corresponding symmetrical expression for the case in which the second jar is charged , and the second at zero , in the beginning ; the roots of the quadratic ( e+1)(e'X+Z')-DD'=O being denoted by p and a. When I/ &gt; DD ' , both roots are negative ; and the electrification comes to zero in time , whatever may be the initial charges .
But when ll ' &lt; DD ' , one root is positive and the other negative ; and ultimately the charges augment in proportion to edt if p be the positive root .
70 [ June 20 , I may take this opportunity of describing an application of it to illustrate a very important fundamental part of electric theory .
I hope soon to communicate to the Royal Society a description of some other experiments which I made seven years ago on the same subject , and which I hope now to be able to prosecute further .
Using only a single inductor and a single receiver , as shown in fig. 1 , let the inductor be put in metallic communication with a metal vessel or cistern whence the water flows ; and let the receiver be put in communication with a delicate electroscope or electrometer .
If the lining of the cistern and the inner metallic surface of the inductor be different metals , an electric effect is generally found to accumulate in the receiver and electrometer .
Thus , for instance , if the inner surface of the inductor be dry polished zinc , and the vessel of water above be of copper , the receiver acquires a continually increasing charge of negative electricity .
There is little or no effect , either positive or negative , if the inductor present a surface of polished copper to the drops where they break from the continuous water above- : but if the copper surface be oxidized by the heat of a lamp , until , instead of a bright metallic surface of copper , it presents a slate-coloured surface of oxide of copper to the drops , these become positively electrified , as is .
4 proved by a continually increasing positive charge exhibited by the electrometer .
When the inner surface of the inductor is of bright metallic colour , either zinc or copper , there seems to be little difference in the effect whether it be wet with water or quite dry ; also I have not found a considerable difference produced by lining the inner surface of the inductor with moist or dry paper .
Copper filings falling from a copper funnel and breaking away from contact in the middle of a zinc inductor , in metallic communication with a copper funnel , as shown in fig. 4 , produces a rapidly increasing negative charge in a small insulated can catching them below .
The quadrant divided-ring electrometer * indicating , by the image of a lamp on a scale , angular motions of a small concave mirror ( 1 of a grain in weight ) such as I use in galvanometers , is very convenient for exhibiting these results .
Its sensibility is such that it gives a deflection of 100 scale-divisions ( r1of an inch each ) on either side of zero , as the effect of a single cell of Daniell 's ; the focusing , by small concave mirrors , supplied to me by Mr. Becker being so good that a deflection can easily be read with accuracy to a quarter of a scale-division By adopting Peltier 's method of a small magnetic needle attached to the electric moveable body ( or " needle " ) , and by using fixed steel magnets outside the instrument to give directing force ( instead of the glass fibre suspension of the divided-ring electrometers described in the articles referred to ) , and by giving a measurable motion by means of a micrometer screw to one of the quadrants , I have a few weeks ago succeeded in making this instrument into an independent electrometer ; instead of a mere electroscope , or an electrometer in virtue of a separate gauge electrometer , as in the Kew recording atmospheric electrometer , described in the Royal Institution lecture .
Reverting to the arrangement described above of a copper vessel of water discharging water in drops from a nozzle through an inductor of zinc , in metallic connexion with the copper , let the receiver be connected with a second inductor , this inductor insulated ; and let a second nozzle , from an uninsulated stream of water , discharge drops through it to a second receiver .
Let this second receiver be connected with a third inductor used to electrify a third stream of water to be caught in a third receiver , and so on .
We thus have an ascending scale of electrophorus action analogous to the beautiful mechanical electric multiplier of Mr. C. F. Varley , with which , by purely electrostatic induction , he obtained a rapid succession of sparks from an ordinary single voltaic element .
This result is easily obtained by the self-acting arrangement now described , with the important modification in the voltaic element , according to which no chemical action is called into play , and work done by gravity is substituted for work done by the combination of chemical elements .
XVII .
" Note on the Calculus of Chemical Operations .
" By Professor WILLIAMSON .
Received June 20 , 1867 .
XVIII .
" Inferences and Suggestions in Cosmical and Geological Philosophy.-Second Series.-On the Luminous Atmosphere of the Sun , exterior to the Photosphere ; and on the Probability that the Monochromatic Spectra , from which Mr. Huggins has inferred the Gaseous Constitution of certain Nebul%e , are due in reality to the Luminous Atmospheres of their constituent Stars or Suns .
" By E. W. BRAYLEY , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. , Professor of Physical Geography and Meteorology in the London Institution .
Received June 20 , 1867 .

