IV .
" On Practical Methods for rapid Signalling by the Electric Telegraph .
" By Prof. W. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1856 .
I am at present engaged in working out various practical applications of the formulae communicated some time ago in a short article on the " Theory of the Electric Telegraph " ( Proceedings , May 17 , 1855 ) , and I hope to be able very soon to lay the results in full before the Royal Society .
In the mean time , as the project of an Atlantic Telegraph is at this moment exciting much interest , I shall explain shortly a telegraphic system to which , in the course of this investigation , I have been led , as likely to give nearly the same rapidity of utterance by a submarine one-wire cable of ordinary lateral dimensions between Ireland and Newfoundland , as is attained on short air or submarine lines by telegraphic systems in actual use .
Every system of working the electric telegraph must comprehend ( 1 ) a plan of operating at one extremity , ( 2 ) a plan of observing at the other , and ( 3 ) a code of letter-signals .
These three parts of the system which I propose will be explained in order , -I .
for long submarine lines , and II .
for air or short submarine lines .
I. Proposed telegraphic systemfor long submarine lines .
1 .
Plan of operating.-This consists in applying a regulated galvanic battery to give , during a limited time , a definite variation of electric potential determined by theory , so as to fulfil the condition of producing an electric effect at the other extremity , which , after first becoming sensible , rises very rapidly to a maximum , then sinks as rapidly till it becomes again , and continues , insensible .
The principle followed is that pointed out by Fourier , by which we see , that , when the wire is left with both ends uninsulated after any electrical operations whatever have been performed upon it , the distribution of electric potential through it will very quickly be reduced to a harmonic law , with an amplitude falling in equal proportions during equal intervals of time .
Unless the electric operations fulfil a certain condition , this ulterior distribution is according to the simple harmonic law ( that is , is proportional to the sine of the distance from either extremity , the whole length being reckoned as 180 ?
) .
The condition which I propose to fulfil is , that the coefficient of the simple harmonic term in the expression for the electrical potential shall vanish .
Then , according to Fourier , the distribution will very much more quickly wear into one following a double harmonic law ( that is , the sine of the distance from one extremity , the whole length being reckoned as 360 ?
) .
In this state of electrification the two halves of the wire on each side of its middle point , being symmetrically and oppositely electrified , will discharge into one another , as well as into the earth at their remote extremities ; each will be like a single wire of half-length , with the simple harmonic distribution ; and the wire will , on the whole , be discharged as fast as a wire of half the length , or four times as fast as a wire of the whole length , after an ordinary electrification .
There is considerable latitude as to the mode of operating so as to fulfil this condition , but the theoretical investigation is readily available for finding the best way of fulfilling it in practice .
The result , as I have tested by actual calculation of the electric pulse at the remote end , is most satisfactory .
The calculations , and curves exhibiting the electric pulse in a variety of cases , will , I trust , very soon be laid before the Royal Society .
The time and law of operations being once fixed upon , a mechanical contrivance of the simplest kind will give the means of directing a regulated galvanic battery to perform it with exactness , and to any stated degree ( positive or negative ) of strength .
Complete plans of all details I have ready to describe when wanted , and shall very soon be able to state exactly the battery power required for a cable of stated dimensions .
2 .
Plan of observation for receiving a message.-The instrument which I propose is Helmholtz 's galvanometer , with or without modification .
The time of vibration of the suspended magnet , and the efficiency of the copper damper , will be so arranged , that during the electric pulse the suspended magnet will turn from its position of equilibrium into a position of maximum deflection , and will fall back to rest in its position of equilibrium .
The possibility of fulfilling these conditions is obvious from the form of the curve I have found to represent the electric pulse .
The observer will watch through a telescope the image of a scale reflected from the polished side of the magnet , or from a small mirror carried by the magnet , and he will note the letter or number which each maximum deflection brings into the middle of his field of view .
3 .
Code of letter-signals.-The most obvious way of completing a telegraphic system on the plans which have been described , is to have the twenty-six letters of the alphabet written on the scale of which the image in the suspended mirror is observed , and to arrange thirteen positive and thirteen negative strengths of electric operation , which will give deflections , positive or negative , bringing one or other of these letters on the reflected scale into the centre of the field of view .
But it would be bad economy to give the simple signals to rare letters , and to require double or triple signals for double and triple combinations of frequent occurrence .
Besides , by the plans which I have formed , it will , I believe , be easy to make much more than thirteen different positive and thirteen different negative strengths of electric operation , giving unmistakeably different degrees of deflection ; and if so , thenmany of the mostfrequent double and triple combinations , as well as all the twenty-six letters of the alphabet singly , might be made by simple signals .
But it is also possible ( although I believe highly improbable ) , that in practice only three or four , or some number less than thirteen , of unmistakeably different deflections could be produced in the galvanometer at one end by electric operations performed on the other extremity .
If so , the whole twenty-six letters could not each have a simple signal , and double signals would have to be chosen for the less frequent letters .
Experience must show what number of perfectly distinct simple signals can be made , and I have scarcely a doubt but that it will be much more than twenty-six .
Then it will be easy to invent a letter code which will use these signals with the best economy for the language in which the message is to be delivered .
Towards this object I have commenced collecting statistics showing the relative frequency with which the different simple letters , and various combinations of simple letters , occur in the English language , and I must soon have information enough to guide in choosing the best code for a given number of simple signals .
The investigation leading to a measurement of the electro-magnetic unit of electricity in terms of the electro-static unit , published since the commencement of the present year by Kohlrausch and Weber , has given all that is required to deduce from Weber 's own previous experiments the measurement of the electric conductivity of copper wire in terms of the proper kind of unit for the telegraph problem .
The data required for estimating the rapidity of action in a submarine wire of stated dimensions would be completed by a determination of the specific inductive capacity of gutta percha , or better still , a direct experiment on the electro-static capacity of a yard or two cut from the cable itself .
I have estimated the retardations of various electric pulses , and the practicable rate of transmitting messages by cables 2400 miles long , and of certain ordinary lateral dimensions , on the assumption that the specific inductive capacity of gutta-percha , measured as Faraday did that of sulphur , shell-lac , &amp;c. , is 2 , from which it probably does not differ much .
These estimates have been published elsewhere ( Athenaeum , Oct. 1856 ) , and I shall not repeat them until I can along with them give a table of estimates for cables of various dimensions , with the uncertainty as to the physical property of gutta-percha either done away with by experiment , or taken strictly into account .
II .
Plan for rapid self-recording signals by air wires and short submarine cables .
The consideration of the preceding plans has led me to think of a system of working air lines , and short submarine lines , by which great rapidity of utterance , considerably greater I believe than any hitherto practised , may be attained .
I have no doubt but that on this system five or six distinct letters per second , or sixty words per minute , may be readily delivered through air lines and submarine lines up to 100 miles , or perhaps even considerably more , of length , and recorded by a self-acting apparatus , which I shall describe in a communication I hope to make to the Royal Society before its next meeting .

