A general Method of calculating the Angles made by any Planes of Crystals , and the Laws according to which they are formed .
By the Rev. W. Whewell , F.R.S. Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
tead November 25 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 87 .
] The author , after stating the inconsistencies , inelegancies , and imperfections of the received notation for expressing the planes of a crystal , and the laws of decrement by which they arise , and of the usual methods of calculating their angles , explains the object of the present paper , which is to propose a system exempt from these inconveniences , and adapted to reduce the mathematical portion of crystallography to a small number of simple formulae , of universal application .
According to the method here followed , each plane of a crystal is represented by a symbol indicative of the laws from which it results , which , by varying only its indices , may be made to represent any law whatever ; and by means of these indices , and of the primary angles of the substance , we may derive a general formula expressing the dihedral angle contained between any one plane re sulting from crystalline laws , and any other .
In the same manner we can find the angle contained between any two edges of the derived crystal .
Conversely , having given the plane , or dihedral angles of any crystal , and its primary form , we can , by a direct and general process , deduce the laws of decrement according to which it is constituted .
The purely mathematical part of this paper depends on two formulae , demonstrated by the author elsewhere and here assumed as known ; by means of one of which the dihedral angle included between any two planes can be calculated , when the equations of both planes are given ; and by the other , the plane angle included between any two given right lines can in like manner be expressed by assigned functions of the coefficients of their equations , supposed given .
These formulae being taken for granted , nothing remains but to express by algebraical equations the planes which result from any assigned laws of decrement , for the different primitive forms which occur in crystallography .
To this effect , the author assumes one of the angles of the primitive form , supposed , in the first case , a rhomboid , as the origin of three coordinates , respectively parallel to its edges , and supposes any secondary face to arise from a decrement on this angle , by the subtraction of any number of molecules on each of the three edges .
It is demonstrated first , that the equation of the plane arising from this decrement will be such , that the coefficients of the three coordinates in it ( when reduced to its simplest form , ) will be the reciprocals of the number of molecules subtracted on the edges to which they correspond .
If the constant part of this equation be zero , the face will pass through the origin of the coordinates ; if not , a face parallel to it may be conceived passing through such origin , and will have the same angles of incidence , &amp;c. on all the other faces of the crystal ; so that all our reasonings may be confined to planes passing through the origin of the coordinates .
To represent any face , the author encloses between parentheses the reciprocal co-efficients of the three coordinates of its equation , or rather of the numbers of molecules subtracted on each of the three edges to form it , with semicolons between : this he calls the symbol of that face .
He then shows how truncations on all the different edges and angles of the primitive form are represented in this notation , by one or more of the elements of which the symbol consists becoming zero or negative , thus comprehending all cases which can occur in one uniform analysis .
The law of symmetry in crystallography requires that similar angles and edges of the primitive form should be modified similarly to form a perfect secondary crystal .
This gives rise to co-existentplanes .
In the rhomboid , these co-existent planes are found by simple permutation of the elements of the symbol one among another .
In the prism , such only must be permuted as relate to similar edges .
In other primitive forms , as for example in the tetrahedron , the author institutes a particular inquiry into the decrements of co-existent planes , which truncate the different angles of the primitive form , as referred tothat particular angle which he assumes as the origin of the coordinates .
It follows from this example , that in this latter case each of the elements of the symbol must be combined with its excess over each of the remaining two , to form a new symbol .
This gives four symbols ( including the original one ) , each susceptible of six permutations , making in all 24 faces .
The author then proceeds to consider the cases of the irregular tetrahedron and octohedron , the triangular prism , and rhomb dodecahedron , investigating in each case the symbols of the co-existent planes , and illustrating his theory with examples taken from the crystalline forms of zircon , sulphur , and other minerals .
He next treats of the order in which the faces lie in a perfect crystal , and the determination of such faces as are adjacent or otherwise .
To this end , he conceives an ellipsoid inscribed within the crystal , having for its three axes the three most remarkable lines in the primitive form , and by means of the well-known equation of the second degree representing such an ellipsoid , combined with the equation of any proposed , he deduces the longitude and latitude , on the surface of the ellipsoid , of the point at which it would be touched by a plane parallel to such face .
The results are included in general and explicit formulae , by whose application , in any proposed case , the sequence and arrangement of the faces in the perfect crystal are readily discovered .
The angles made by edges of the secondary form are next investigated ; after which the author , having recapitulated his results , takes occasion to refer to a paper by Mr. Levy , who had previously , but unknown to Mr. Whewell , employed the representation of a secondary plane , by its equation referred to .
the three principal edges of the primitive form , but only in a particular case ; whereas the investigation and notation in the present paper are absolutely general .
In the course of this paper , Mr. Whewell instances the application of his analysis to the solution of the following problems : Knowing the dihedral angles of the secondary rhomboid , to find the symbol of its faces , or their laws of decrement .
To find what laws of decrement give a secondary rhomboid similar to the primary one .
Knowing the lateral angles made by the planes of any bipyramidal dodecahedron , to find the symbols .
Knowing the angles made by any plane , with two primary planes to find its symbol .
To find what laws give prisms parallel to the axis of the rhomboid .
To find the symbol of a plane which truncates the edge of any secondary rhomboid .

